. .. .                                            MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Games of Chance » Lotteries and Scratchcard Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Choose Lottery Numbers  Four Methods: Choosing Frequently Picked Numbers Using the Delta System Choosing Lucky Numbers Using Random Numbers Community Q&A  Though playing the lottery is a game of chance, that doesn’t mean you can’t have a method for choosing your lottery numbers. Of course, there's no perfect method for choosing winning lottery numbers, but there are several ways that you can do it. You can take a scientific or mathematical approach, gamble and choose randomly, follow your gut. Experiment with a few different ways. You never know. You might get lucky.         Steps    Method  1   Choosing Frequently Picked Numbers           1   Look up the frequency chart for previous lottery draws. Most state lottery programs offer charts showing how often each number has been drawn during a given time frame. For instance, it shows how often the number 1 was chosen as a Powerball number between 1997 and 2015. You can view a Powerball frequency chart via the Iowa State Lottery. here ). [1]   If you can look up the all-time frequencies, that's the best possible data set for you to analyze. It’s more comprehensive, and you should base your numbers on as large a time frame as possible.  There's no clear way to know if you should be looking up frequent winning numbers or numbers that come up less frequently. Look up both types of numbers and play sequences with a combo of both if you wish.  However, winning numbers that come up more frequently are likely to remain frequent winners. If you play a number that doesn't come up as frequently, then you simply may need to wait a while to see if it comes up when its "due" to win.  Make sure you're looking up the right frequency chart for the lottery game you plan to play. For instance, Powerball stats will differ from Mega Millions stats.            2   Choose your numbers based on the frequency chart. Review the numbers that are the most frequently chosen and the least frequently chosen. Review the odds for those as well as the numbers in between. [2] After you've looked over the odds, you have two options:  Select numbers that are drawn frequently. If you notice that a few numbers stand out for being drawn significantly more often than the others, consider including them in your pick. Be aware, though, that several other people will be trying this tactic; if you win with frequently picked numbers, you might be at a greater risk of having to share the prize with other winners.  Select numbers that are drawn less frequently. Choosing numbers that aren't picked very often might seem counterintuitive, but consider this: If everyone else is busy picking frequently drawn numbers and you win with your “long-shot” picks, you might not have to share the prize with as many other winners.           3   Acknowledge that each number still has an equal chance of being drawn. Looking at frequency charts might show you which numbers tend to be drawn, but keep in mind that when the actual lottery drawing comes around, each number still has an absolutely equal chance of being picked. It’s all in the luck of the draw. [3]               Score 0 / 0    Method 1 Quiz  Why should you pick numbers that are drawn less frequently?     Because you won't have to share the prize with as many people if you win.  Yes! Numbers that are drawn less frequently are also picked less frequently by players. Therefore, if you do win, you'll share the prize with less people. Read on for another quiz question.    Because they are due to hit soon.  Not exactly! Remember that each number has an equal chance to be drawn. Picking numbers that are not drawn frequently does not mean that they will come up sooner. Click on another answer to find the right one...    Because they yield a higher jackpot.  Nope! The jackpot is the same no matter which numbers you pick. Picking numbers that are drawn infrequently will not increase your winnings. Click on another answer to find the right one...              Method  2   Using the Delta System          1   Learn the Delta System. The Delta Lotto method is way to choose lottery numbers based on a statistical study of numbers that are next to each other. This information has been related back to winning lottery numbers, which has formed the basis for this method. In other words, the delta method is based on research, but keep in mind there’s no guarantee you’re going to win if you choose your numbers this way. [4]          2   Choose a very low number. The number should be between 1 and 5. For instance, the number 1 is a good number to choose because often, more than 60% of the time, the number 1 is part of the winning delta numbers included in the series. However, feel free to choose another low number that you feel good about such as 3 or 5 There is no exact science. Example: 1         3   Pick two numbers between 1 and 8. There are a number of combinations that you could choose from. For instance, you could choose 3 and 5. Or, 2 and 6 could be an option. You could also choose two consecutive numbers like 7 and 8. Example: 3 and 5 Sequence: 1-3-5         4   Pick a number very close to 8. It can be above the number 8 , such as the number 9. Or, it can be below, for instance, 7. For the fourth number, pick something pretty close to 8 ,either above or below it. Example:9 Sequence 1-3-5-9         5   Pick two numbers between 8 and 15. Choose two numbers a few numbers away from each other such as 11 and 13. Another option could be 14 and 9 or 10 and 14. Choose the numbers randomly or choose your favorite numbers between the given range. The smaller number doesn’t have to be listed first. Example: 11 and 13 Sequence: 1-3-5-9-11-13.         6   Write down your delta numbers. Once you have selected 6 numbers in the method described, you have created a six-digit lottery number sequence. Write it down in the order that you selected them. In our example, the numbers are 1-3-5-9-11-13         7   Add up the numbers. Make sure the sum of the numbers is not greater than the highest number allowed in the game you’re playing. For instance, if the highest lottery number you can play is 56, then our numbers are within the range because the total sum equals 42. 1 +3+5+9+11+13 = 42  If your is within about about 15 from the total but not greater than the total, then you have selected some good numbers.  If you need to select different numbers so that you sum is not greater than the highest lottery number, then do so.  It’s okay if numbers repeat themselves where applicable. For instance, you’re number close to 8 could be the number 9, and you could also select 9 for your number between 8 and 15. If you need to do this to make sure that your sum total is not greater, that is fine. Remember numbers sometimes repeat in winning lottery numbers.           8   Rearrange the delta numbers. Delta numbers aren’t usually in sequential order. So, change the numbers around a bit. Put the first number last and the last number first. Put the numbers in the middle at the end or beginning. Rearrange them so that they are in a different order. For example, our numbers rearranged could be 1-3-5-9-11-13 or it could be 5-3-11-9-1-13. There are a number of different variations that you could have. [5]          9   Write down the final delta number. For now, our delta series is 5-3-11-9-1-13. This is not your final lottery number. You will use these numbers to create your lottery number sequence.         10   Write down the first lottery number. The first delta number of the series becomes the first lottery number of your lottery sequence. It remains unchanged. However, the remainder of the numbers will be added together to create the lottery numbers. For example:, the first lottery number is 5. Example: 5         11   Add the first lottery number and the second delta number together. (5 +3 =8) This sum of these two become your second lottery number, the number 4. Repeat this for the rest of the delta numbers. Adding the sum of the numbers next to each other is how you create each number in the series to create your final lottery number sequence. If our delta numbers are 5-3-11-9-1-13, then our lottery numbers are created in the following way:  The first lottery number is 5. Example: 5-  The second lottery number is created by adding the first lottery number to the second delta number. For our example, we get 8 as the sum of 5 and 3. The number 8 is our second lottery number. For example, the number ares 5,8 so far. Example: 5-8-  Add the second lottery number to the third delta number. For example, the number 8 is our second lottery number. Our third delta number is 11. For instance, the number 8 plus 11 equals 19. ( 8+11 =19) So, nineteen is our third lottery number. For example, the lottery numbers are 5,8,19 so far. Example: 5-8-19-  Add the third lottery number and the fourth delta number. In our case, 19 is our third lottery number and 9 is our fourth delta number. For instance, 19 plus 9 equals 28. (19+9 = 28) Twenty-eight is our fourth lottery number. The numbers are 5,8,19 and 28 thus far. Example 5-8-19-28-  Add the fourth lottery number and the fifth delta number. For our example, 28 is our fourth lottery number and 1 is our fifth delta number. Twenty-eight plus 1 equals 29. (28 +1 = 29) So, Twenty-nine is our fifth lottery number. Thus far, the numbers are 5,8,19, 28 and 29. Example: 5-8-19-28-29-  Add the fifth lottery number and the sixth delta number. In this case, 29 is our fifth lottery number and 13 is our sixth delta number. 29 + 13 =42 . Forty-two is our sixth lottery number. The lottery numbers are 5,8,19,28,29 and 42 so far. Example: 5-8-19-28-29-42  Our final lottery numbers are 5-8-19-28-29-42. Now, your numbers are ready to play. Repeat the process again to create another delta number.           Score 0 / 0    Method 2 Quiz  When using the delta system, the first number you pick should fit what parameters?     It should be between 8 and 15.  Not exactly! You pick 2 numbers between 8 and 15 to complete the fifth and sixth numbers in your delta series. However, this is not how you select the first number. Try another answer...    It should be very close to 8.  Not quite! This is how you select the fourth, not the first, number in your delta series. Guess again!    It should be between 1 and 8.  Nope! This is how you choose the second 2 numbers in your delta series. You select the first in a different way. Try again...    It should be a very low number.  Nice! The number 1 is a good choice because it is 1 of the winning numbers (when using the delta system) more than 60 percent of time. Read on for another quiz question.              Method  3   Choosing Lucky Numbers          1   Choose numbers that are significant to you. If you believe in lucky numbers, they're probably digits that center around important dates or events in your life. Mix the numbers of significant numbers together. For instance, you might use your grandfather’s birthday month and year,10/1929 and your mother’s birth month and day, 3/21. Together you might come up with something like 10-19-3-21-29. Other examples of significant numbers might include::  Birthdays: Yours, your children's, your spouse's, and so on.  Anniversaries: This could be a wedding anniversary date, or the date of another significant event.  Ages: Using your age or the ages of your loved ones is also a common practice.  Addresses: The address of your childhood or current home is another tactic you can try.  Phone numbers: Try breaking down your phone number into a sequence of single- or double-digit lotto numbers.           2   Choose numbers you consider lucky. Some folks have a lucky number they use for everything. It isn't connected a birthday or anything like that, they just like the number. If this is the case for you, add your lucky number to your lottery number. You never know. You might get lucky!  If you're playing a lottery game such as Powerball, consider making your lucky number the Powerball pick.  Also if you’re lucky numbers are 7 and 11 lucky, keep in mind that those are really common lottery picks. If you win with these numbers on your ticket, you might end up sharing the prize with a lot of people.           3   Choose a lucky number and stick with it. Some people choose a number sequence that they consider lucky and play it over and over again until it comes up a winner -- if it ever does. For instance, if you’re favorite number sequence is your favorite number, combined with your birthday and your spouse’s lucky number and birthday (3-6-11-9-10-31), then you would play this number religiously every time you play the lottery. Then, you wait for your number to come up a winner. This could be considered making your own luck.         Score 0 / 0    Method 3 Quiz  What significant numbers can you use to play the lottery?     Birthdays  Try again! You can absolutely choose birthdays to play the lottery. Try yours, your children's, and your spouse's. But keep in mind that there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. Pick another answer!    Anniversaries  You're partially right! Anniversaries are popular lucky numbers to play in the lottery. You can use a wedding anniversary or other significant event. But remember that there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. Try another answer...    Addresses  Close! The address for your current or childhood home might be lucky to play in the lottery. You could include the zip code if you need more numbers. Still, there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. There’s a better option out there!    Phone numbers  Almost! Break important phone numbers into single- and double-digit numbers to make your picks! However, there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. There’s a better option out there!    All of the above  Correct! When choosing lucky numbers, birthdays, anniversaries, addresses, and phone numbers are all great options. Get creative, and go with your gut! Read on for another quiz question.              Method  4   Using Random Numbers          1   Find a random number generator.  Random.org has a number generator specifically designed for lottery picks. The advantage of using random draws is that winning lottery numbers are chosen randomly as well. So, it might be a lucky draw.  Choose how many tickets you want. Then, choose the country or state in which you’re playing.  Choose the lottery game that you’re playing such as Powerball, Nebraska-Pick 5, etc. You are able to choose specific games for each state.  Choose how many numbers are available in the draw. For instance, a five sequence number such as 5-10-14-2-6-7. Or, is it a six sequence number like 11-5-3-9-15-24.  Chose the highest number in the sequence. For instance, if any number up to 59 is available to play, the sequence 6-59-30-15-5 is a viable lottery number. The number 60-3-67-3-10-5-1 is not.Then, click pick tickets. The settings and the site will calculate a number for you. [6]            2   Use a random number generator for single numbers. If you still want to have a little control over your numbers, you could use a random number generator to choose individual numbers. For instance, you could choose the parameters such as a number between 1 and 30. Then, let the random number choose. Do that for each number.  You also could follow the steps of the delta method except instead of picking the numbers yourself, you could allow the random number generator to do it. You simply set the parameters for each step of the process. [7]            3   Use "lotto pick" computer generated numbers. Allow the lottery to choose randomly for you. You can request random picks when you purchase your lottery ticket. When the attendant asked you for the numbers, tell him or her that you want the system to choose the numbers for you. With the click of a few buttons, you’ll have your lottery numbers. If you're buying several tickets at one time, this is probably the way to go.         Score 0 / 0    Method 4 Quiz  What information do you need to input into a random number generator?     The jackpot amount.  Nope! The random number generator does not need to know the jackpot amount for the game you're playing. It selects numbers based on the type of game, how many numbers you can select, and the highest number available to play. Guess again!    Which lottery game you are playing.  Absolutely! Examples include Powerball or Pick 3, although the games may vary depending on your state. The random number generator needs this information so it can set parameters such as how many numbers you need to select and what numbers are available for selection. Read on for another quiz question.    The lowest number possible to play.  Not quite! The lowest possible number will always be 1. Instead, you will need to enter the highest number available to play. Click on another answer to find the right one...    The most frequently drawn numbers.  Not exactly! The random number generator does not take frequently drawn number into account. You do not need to enter this information. Choose another answer!                 Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      How can I find the winning numbers for the lottery on a particular date?    wikiHow Contributor   Watch the news on the day it is drawn, or you could search it on your lottery website.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 7  Helpful 35           How do I find my lucky numbers?    wikiHow Contributor   Go with your best gut feeling, use numbers that have always seemed to produce good results, or pick numbers that mean something important to you.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 10  Helpful 42           If my highest lottery number is 90, what should I do?    wikiHow Contributor   Use Analysis Lotto test drive and configure it to 1 - 90.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 18  Helpful 64           How do I play Powerball?    wikiHow Contributor   This article can help you with the process of playing Powerball: How to Play Powerball .   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 10  Helpful 33           What are tomorrow's numbers?    wikiHow Contributor   You can pick whichever numbers you would like. There is no way of knowing ahead of time.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 11  Helpful 30           Are websites like "biggreennumbers.com" good to use?    wikiHow Contributor   No, buy your lottery tickets at a shop. It's way too easy to get scammed out of money online.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 11  Helpful 27           Is it better to pick my own numbers when playing the lottery?    wikiHow Contributor   You have exactly the same chance if a computer chooses them for you as you do choosing them yourself.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 0  Helpful 3             Unanswered Questions        How do I find the winning lottery numbers in my area after choosing mine?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How can I get a winning number in Nigeria Lottos?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How do I choose lottery numbers?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           Where do I send my chosen number?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How do I choose lottery numbers and where do I see the results?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...         Show more unanswered questions    Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Remember, the lottery is completely random and there's no perfect way to pick numbers. If there were, it wouldn't be fun!         Edit Related wikiHows       How to Spend Lottery Winnings      How to Calculate Lotto Odds      How to Buy a Lottery Ticket      How to Be a Successful Gambler      How to Play Powerball      How to Win More Scratch Offs      How to Increase Your Chances of Winning a Lottery      How to Win the Mega Millions      How to Win Keno            Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.use4.com/stepbystep.html    ↑  http://www.use4.com/stepbystep.html    ↑  https://www.random.org/quick-pick/    ↑  http://www.mathgoodies.com/calculators/random_no_custom.html      Show more... (4)        Made Recently         Uploaded 3 years ago       Uploaded 3 years ago      Loading...  Add a photo Upload error         Awesome picture! Tell us more about it? Click here to share your story.             Article Info   Categories: Lotteries and Scratchcard Games  In other languages:  Français: choisir ses numéros au loto , Español: escoger números para la lotería , Deutsch: Lottozahlen tippen , Português: Escolher Números na Loteria    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 1,523,104 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .    About This Article                         92 votes - 67%  Click a star to vote    67% of people told us that this article helped them.     Co-authors: 30    Updated:   Views: 1,523,104          Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Spend Lottery Winnings How to Calculate Lotto Odds How to Buy a Lottery Ticket How to Be a Successful Gambler       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                258  . .               Michigan Classic 47 Lotto Tips  Updated 11/16/17   About Michigan Classic 47 Lotto Game   Michigan Classic 47 6/47 started on May 18, 2005. 
       Classic 47 is a game in which six numbers are drawn from 1 to 47. 
       Drawings are held twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday.
       Jackpots start at $1 million and increases by $100,000 each drawing that is not won.  The odds of winning the Classic 47 jackpot are one in 10,737,573.
       Compare that to the jackpot odds of one in 30,821,472 of winning Lucky for Life ,
       or one in 292 million of winning the Powerball lottery or one in 302,575,350 of winning the Mega Millions game ! 
       However, there are better games in Michigan to play:
       Odds of one in 2,546,203 of winning Michigan Keno ;
       or odds of only one in 575,757 of winning the Michigan Fantasy5 .    Pick Better Lotto Numbers   Strategy Book  Below are free lotto tips to help you play the game smarter and win the lottery, taken from Gail Howard's lotto book, Lottery Master Guide . This is just a sample, and the book
       explains all of Smart Luck's successful methods of number selection in great detail with examples of patterns shown throughout. It is a great starting place for any lotto player.  ADD TO CART    Strategy Software  Advantage Gold software makes all the charts for this game, to automate the process of choosing the best numbers to play.  ADD TO CART   Lottery Strategies to Help You Win Michigan Classic 47  Lottery numbers are randomly drawn. But randomly drawn numbers form patterns
       that can be tracked and used to our advantage. Having carefully analyzed all the 
       drawings in past lotto results of more than 200 different lotto games worldwide, with
       histories going back as far as 1955, we have verified the following incredibly
       simple rule:  That which is MOST POSSIBLE happens MOST OFTEN. That which is LEAST POSSIBLE happens LEAST OFTEN.   The key to Smart Luck's successful lotto number selection methods is playing
       the probabilities. If you play a pattern that occurs only five
       percent of the time, you can expect that pattern to lose 95
       percent of the time, giving you no chance to win 95 percent of
       the time. So, don't buck the probabilities.  How to WIN Michigan Classic 47 Lotto  ODD-EVEN LOTTO NUMBER TIPS  When you select your Classic 47 Lotto numbers, try to have a relatively even mix of odd and
       even numbers. All odd numbers or all even numbers are rarely drawn, occurring less than
       one percent of the time. The best mix is to have 2/4, 4/2 or 3/3, which means two 
       odd and four even, or four odd and two even, or three odd and three even. One of 
       these three patterns will occur in 81 percent of the drawings.  HIGH-LOW LOTTO NUMBER TIPS  Winning numbers are usually spread across the entire number field . If we take a
       number field and cut it in half, we have the low half and the high half. In a
       47-number game, numbers 1 to 24 would be in the low half, and numbers 25 to 47
       would be in the high half. All high numbers or all low numbers are rarely drawn, occurring
       only one percent of the time. The best mix is to have 2/4, 4/2 or 3/3, which means 
       two high and four low, or four high and two low, or three high and three low. 
       Winning number groups with these three patterns occur in 81 percent of all drawings.  LOTTERY NUMBER GROUP STRATEGIES  Look at a list of past winning numbers for Michigan Classic Lotto, and you'll see,
       more often than not, that one or more of the number groups is not represented. For
       example, in the combination 5-14-17-32-38-47, there are no 20's. Tracking and studying
       Number Groups can help you decide which group to omit and which group to give extra
       heavy play.  LOTTERY GAMES SKIPPED STRATEGIES  List the number of games skipped (games out) since the last hit (win) for each of
       the winning numbers during the last five games. Then mark the number of times each
       skip occurred. If any skip from 0 to 5 did not occur, play the Lotto numbers that
       are out that many games. ( Help working with lotto games skipped .)  LOTTO NUMBER SUM ADVICE - PLAY A BALANCED GAME ®  After you choose six numbers you want to play, add them together and make sure
       that the sum of the six numbers adds up to somewhere between 115 and 185. Sums that
       fall within that range will account for over 70 percent of all lottery jackpots won.  REPEAT HITS LOTTERY TIPS  In Michigan Classic 47 6/47, on average, one lottery number will be a repeat hit from the 
       last drawing 81 percent of the time.  HOT NUMBER LOTTERY SECRETS  Numbers that have been out (losers) for five games or less account for about 
       half of the winning numbers drawn. Losing numbers that have been out 
       ten games or less account for 77 percent of all the winning numbers . This tells 
       us that hot numbers are more likely to hit, but don't forget to include at 
       least one long shot in your group of 6.  COLD NUMBER LOTTERY SECRETS  It is difficult to know when a cold number will end a long losing streak. If you play a
       number every drawing because you think it is due , you could be chasing it
       for many months. (Number 45 in New York Lotto sat out 100 drawings before it
       finally hit.) Although, when a number has been out for 70 games or so, it might be
       worth chasing.  Lottery Pools and Lottery Syndicates  POOL YOUR WAY TO LOTTO RICHES  Several of the 107 Lotto jackpots won with Smart Luck lottery systems were won by groups of people
       who pooled their money. Sharing the ticket cost with others stretches your Lotto
       budget. By playing with a group, you can afford to buy more lottery
       tickets—and play larger wheeling systems—than you could (or should) by
       yourself. Draw up an agreement and have the members of your pool sign it.  How to Get Lucky in Lotto  CASH IN ON THE LUCK OF OTHERS  When you form a Lotto pool, your group is also pooling its aggregate luck. A
       jackpot could happen because of the luck just one member brings to your pool.
       Select your partners carefully. Share your luck with winners, not losers. Avoid
       negative people. Not only are they unlucky, but they dampen enthusiasm and drain
       energy from others. You want to enhance your own luck, not dilute its strength. One
       quick way to tell winners from losers is simply to ask them: "Do you think you
       are a lucky person?" Many people quickly admit, "I'm unlucky. I never win
       anything." They won't bring good luck to your group either.  CASH IN ON A POSITIVE ATTITUDE  No one should play games of chance out of desperation because they need the
       winnings. The needy have a greater fear of losing the hard-earned money they gamble
       with. It is just one of life's dirty tricks that the very fear of losing blocks the
       winning forces. Thoughts are charged with energy, especially when triggered by
       emotion. Fear attracts exactly that which one fears. A strong desire for a goal
       that is charged with positive energy, attracts a positive response, especially when
       every effort is made to attain that goal.  Lotto Wheels to help you win   After you choose the best numbers with number strategies, you can improve your odds of winning larger prizes by using lotto wheeling systems.
       It's simple, easy as A-B-C to wheel pick-6 lotto numbers using the 
       Balanced Wheels in the Wheel Six Gold lottery software .
       You get a minimum win guarantee with every wheel!  ADD TO CART   Lottery Wheels  USE BALANCED WHEEL ® SYSTEMS  Balanced Wheel ® Systems allow you to 
       bet a large group of numbers (more than 6), play scientific combinations of that group 
       of numbers, and get a specific minimum win guarantee . Balanced Wheels ® force all the 
       winning numbers that are in your group to come together to give you at least one prize 
       if some or all of the winning numbers are in your chosen group.  It's true that the more numbers you wheel, the easier it is to trap the winning
       numbers in your chosen group. But to get the most leverage for your money, the optimum
       number of numbers to wheel is not more than four or five numbers over HALF the numbers
       in your game. In Michigan Classic Lotto, choose less than 28 numbers to wheel.
       Otherwise, you'll be spending MORE money chasing a SMALLER guaranteed prize. 
       You benefit more by wheeling a carefully selected group of lotto numbers.  THE BEST WAY TO WHEEL ALL THE LOTTO NUMBERS IN YOUR GAME  Any one wheeling
       system that covers ALL the numbers in the game is too spread out, making the win
       guarantee not worth the wager. There are smart ways to wheel all the numbers in
       the game by using Trap-by-Overlap and other wheeling strategies covered on pages
       137 to 142 in the Lottery Master Guide.   Most of Smart Luck's lottery winners used a Balanced Wheel ® in addition to her Smart Luck ® number selection methods. You can use a FREE  
       interactive Balanced Wheeling System that won
       multiple jackpots. Read about our lottery winners , too. And
       when you win a jackpot with Smart Luck lotto systems, tell us about it so you can be added to Gail Howard's
       growing list of winners. If you don't want your name publicized, we will honor
       that.  Save Money by Knowing Lotto Numbers to Avoid  Lotto players who select their lottery numbers thoughtlessly or foolishly are destined to lose even before the drawing takes place. 
       By knowing which number combinations and patterns to avoid, you'll have an advantage over such players—and save money, too.  AVOID NUMBER COMBINATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN DRAWN BEFORE  Many players like to bet the numbers that have won someone else a big jackpot, and
       by doing so, they are almost guaranteed NOT to win one themselves. In Michigan Classic 47,
       with three drawings a week, a set of 6 numbers has a chance of being drawn once
       every 89,639 years!!! This should also answer the question we are so often asked,
       "Shouldn't I keep playing the same set of numbers every week because they are due
       to hit sometime?"  AVOID BETTING SIX CONSECUTIVE LOTTO NUMBERS  Six consecutive numbers have never been drawn in any state or international lotto game. 
       Smart Luck has all the drawing results for more than 190 state and international lottery games, going back more than fifty years! 
       Even five consecutive numbers is a very rare occurrence that, in most Lotto games, has never happened once.  AVOID BETTING ONE LOTTO NUMBER GROUP  Never choose all six numbers from one number group, such as all single digits, or
       all teens, or all 20's, etc. All six winning numbers drawn from one group is
       highly unlikely.  AVOID THE LOTTO COMBINATION 1-2-3-4-5-6  The most popular set of numbers most often played is: 1-2-3-4-5-6. Thousands of
       tickets are bought with this combination every drawing. The selection
       is too far out of balance to come up in a random drawing.  AVOID PATTERN BETTING  Pattern betting is an even more popular method of marking bet slips. Patterns of
       numbers marked in a row to make a straight line, either across the bet slip
       vertically or diagonally get heavy play—which means sharing the prize with
       others if the numbers are drawn as winners. Other designs such as patterns of
       initials or numbers or crosses also get heavy play.  AVOID NUMBER MULTIPLES  Other popular combinations that get heavy play are the number multiples, especially
       5-10-15-20-25-30 and 7-14-21-28-35-42.  AVOID ALL SAME LAST DIGITS  Many people like to play same last digits, such as 3-13-23-33-43, or all digits that
       end in seven, or some other favorite lucky lottery number. Even four same last digits occur
       in less than two-tenths of one percent of all drawings. Winning sets of numbers with 
       three last digits the same occur in less than 3 percent of all drawings. Winning sets 
       of numbers with no more than one repeated last digit represent nearly 90 percent of all
       drawings.  AVOID LOW NUMBER COMBINATIONS  The majority of Lotto players like to play the calendar numbers, such as birth
       dates and anniversaries—and their children's ages. This means that the most
       heavily played numbers are 1 through 31. Michigan Classic 47 has 47 numbers. If you play
       only the calendar numbers, you might be sharing your jackpot with dozens of other
       winners. It's not to say that you shouldn't play your personal numbers if you feel these lucky numbers are good to play. But we recommend that you include a couple of high
       numbers so that just in case your numbers do hit, you win a prize that's worth
       something.  NIX LOTTO QUICK PICKS  Quick Picks are used by lazy people who want to be in the action without putting
       any effort into winning. When you read articles about jackpot winners, it appears
       as though they all used either Quick Picks, birth dates, or their children's ages.
       The vast majority of people do play that way. If the majority of tickets sold are
       Quick Picks, then it makes sense that the majority of jackpots won should be won
       with Quick Picks. However, when you see the actual statistics, as we did, you'll find that you have
       a better chance of winning by picking numbers randomly out of a hat than by using
       Quick Picks.  In Lotto, the Trend is Your Friend  The shortest, easiest way to search for Lotto numbers that have
       the greatest probability of winning is to track the trends. Smart Luck strategies show you how to understand and use historical data.
       Advantage Gold is the best lotto strategy software which has a vast assortment of charts and reports
       that allow you to examine your lotto numbers in an infinite variety of ways. 
       Advantage Gold teaches you to understand and use historical data.  Win with Lotto Software and Books   See all Smart Luck lottery software and lotto books or the full lottery product guide and list of best Michigan lottery software and books to use for Michigan Classic.
       Also see the references on the right side of this page: products to use for Michigan Classic Lotto, 
       many articles for more info on understanding lottery strategy and the concepts of lotto wheeling, 
       links to our free wheels for Michigan Classic Lotto, and more!  Good Luck with Smart Luck ® .   Lottery Software   Find out more about Lottery Software    Lottery Books   Find out more about Lottery Books   SHOP NOW      Michigan Classic Lotto Products   Advantage Gold™ Number Selection Lotto Software  More Info  ADD TO CART    Lottery Master Guide Lottery Strategy Book  More Info  ADD TO CART    Wheel Six Gold™ Balanced Lotto Wheel ® Software for Pick-6 and Pick-7 Games More Info  ADD TO CART    Lotto How to Wheel a Fortune Balanced Wheel ® System Book for Pick-6 and Pick-7 Games More Info  ADD TO CART    Filtering Full Wheel Generator™ Full Wheeling Software for Pick-3 to Pick-10 Games More Info  ADD TO CART   More Help for Which Products to Buy for Michigan Classic Lotto :   Best Lottery Software and Books for Michigan  Lottery Products Guide Explains Overview of Types of Books and Software     Lottery Advantage Charts  For a set of our number selection strategy charts printed just for Michigan Classic Lotto, order the Lottery Advantage Charts.  More Info  ADD TO CART    Michigan Lottery  Official Site:   Michigan State Lottery   Newest Lotto Drawings:   Download Michigan Lottery Results     MI Lotto Strategy  Using Lottery Strategies to Pick Winning Numbers for Michigan Classic Lotto   3 Ways to Win the Lotto  Playing a Balanced Game  Using the Most Probable Range of Sums to Your Avantage  FAQ: How do I pick my best numbers?     MI Lotto Wheeling  Using Wheels to Improve Your Odds of Winning Michigan Classic Lotto   What is lotto wheeling  Why lottery Balanced Wheels ® win jackpots  FAQ: What is a minimum win guarantee?  FAQ: What's better: Wheel Gold or FWGP/FFWG?     How do you win a lotto?  Free Tips for Other Michigan Lottery Games:   Michigan Fantasy 5 Lottery Strategies  Michigan Keno Lottery Strategies  Michigan Powerball Lottery Strategies  Michigan Mega Millions Lottery Strategies  Michigan Lucky for Life Lottery Strategies     Lotto Wheels for Free  Discover how lottery wheels can improve your odds of winning! Try out a free winning wheel for Michigan Classic 47 Lotto:   FREE Interactive Lottery Wheeling System 608          ORDER (M-F 8am-5pm EST): 1-727-441-8906 TECH SUPPORT (M-F 1pm-5pm EST): 1-727-441-8714              Lottery Winning Systems & Strategies   CART  Turn a game of luck into a game of skill!™          Menu   Home  About   About Smart Luck  Mission Statement  Media Appearances  Articles    Winners   Proof of Winners  Winners' Testimonials  Winners' News Articles    Products   Lottery Books  Lottery Software  Software Upgrades    Purchase   View Shopping Cart  Mail-In Order Form  Which Products to Order  Shipping and Payments  Media Options  Return Policy  Privacy Policy    Free Tips   Basic Info - Methods to Win  Balanced Game  70% Best Lotto Sums  Odds of Winning  Lotto Wheels Explained  Balanced Lotto Wheels  Free Lotto Wheels  Free Lotto Tips  Free Software Demos    Support   FAQ  Lottery Updater  SlhEdit Program  Lotto Result Files  Software Downloads  Lotto Terms Glossary  Comments and Reviews  Contact Smart Luck    News  Links   Fast Links  USA Lotteries  International Lotteries             This site and all contents are protected under international copyright laws. © Smartluck, Inc. 2016 . All rights reserved worldwide.    Sitemap Terms and Conditions                      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Want no interruptions?       Loading...      No problem. Get more with YouTube Red         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Michigan Classic Lotto 47 Winning System -- How to Win the Lottery                 SiouxieCrewszbi              Loading...        Unsubscribe from SiouxieCrewszbi?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 157             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   3,739 views         5   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     6    2   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     3            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Mar 13, 2011 http://www.LottoBookSystem.com How to Win The Lottery - Lotto Blackbook Winning Secrets The only guarantee that you might win the lottery no matter where you are is first of all to have a lottery ticket. If you have a ticket than your chances of winning the lottery is one in god knows how many millions. Now, if you have two or more tickets, even hundreds of them, the chances are pretty much the same because the odds of winning a lottery with millions of players are very slim. This is because 99.9 percent of the players base their game on luck. Mr. Larry Blair, a math professor, discovered a lottery system that anyone can use it in order to win the lottery. He won the lottery few times with his method and he wasn't even thinking of sharing his secret with the others but because of the media his identity was revealed and he got threats from all over. One day he even got shot for this and he decided to write a book about it and share it with the rest of the world. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com After this the question is not How to Win the Lottery but When to Win the Lottery. He tried to print a hard copy of the book called The Lotto Blackbook but all the publishers refused because they knew this system really works so he decided to publish it in an electronic form. But there is still a catch and that is only 1000 copies are available for download. You can check here how may copies are left. This book is by any means a winner. If you get a hold of this book and carefully read it and than apply the techniques presented there you are guaranteed to win the lottery. To put his money where his mouth is Mr. Blair guarantees you that if you don't win the lottery in few weeks he will refund your fund if it didn't work for you. That is a good investment for few weeks. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com     Category   Howto & Style     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Seven-Time Lottery Winner Offers Tips to Powerball Winner | ABC News  - Duration: 5:33.  ABC News  2,020,219 views     5:33               Secrets The Lottery Doesn't Want You To Know  - Duration: 7:05.  Grunge  3,129,158 views     7:05      Ways to Win the Lottery - Lottery Winning Systems - Tips from Richard Lustig  - Duration: 3:40.  Gergely Oszkar  331,111 views     3:40      Win the 6 digit lottery    YouTube  - Duration: 3:22.  6thsensetv  1,337,045 views     3:22      Double Lottery Winner Secret  - Duration: 2:02.  LotteryNews  546,970 views     2:02      7-Time Lotto Winner Offers Powerball Tips: Powerball Jackpot Hits $425 Million  - Duration: 2:36.  ABC News  896,944 views     2:36      How To WIN THE LOTTERY - Guaranteed!  - Duration: 4:24.  Jon  704,522 views     4:24      Powerball Winner Paul White Hilarious Press Conference After Winning $149 million Prize [Full]  - Duration: 9:06.  martysoffice  623,651 views     9:06      What Happens When You Win The Lottery?  - Duration: 3:23.  NowThis World  1,951,865 views     3:23      BUYING ALL THE LOTTERY TICKETS IN THE LOTTERY MACHINE!!!!  - Duration: 12:09.  Claw Kicker  3,923,519 views     12:09      I Have Won The Lottery! - Lottery Success - Super Charged Affirmations  - Duration: 30:30.  Rockstar Affirmations  662,938 views     30:30      Fix The Machine - How To Win The Lottery  - Duration: 2:47.  Derren Brown  111,584 views     2:47      New Emerald 10'S California Lottery Scratcher $10 Card - $$ Symbols  - Duration: 2:44.  Scratcher Heaven  32,643 views     2:44      Michigan Lottery | Kelsey Zachow, Mega Millions Winner  - Duration: 1:30.  Constant Motion Productions  4,341 views     1:30      How to win the LotteryðŸ’°How to win Lotto every week! Lotto Winners Law of Attraction works!  - Duration: 4:35.  Dreaming The Life, Living The Dream  478,719 views     4:35      Couple Claims $202.1 Million Powerball Jackpot!  - Duration: 2:54.  Iowa Lottery  136,584 views     2:54      How To Play Lotto 47  - Duration: 2:14.  MichiganLottery  5,081 views     2:14      Manistique man claims Lotto 47 winnings  - Duration: 0:49.  TV6 & FOX UP  1,222 views     0:49      $2M Michigan Lottery Winner Still Collects Food Stamps & Disability  - Duration: 3:11.  RippDemUp TV  34,717 views     3:11      "Cash For Life" Michigan Lottery Scratch Off Ticket!  - Duration: 2:19.  JJLawnicki93  12,701 views     2:19     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                 Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Tired of ads?       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Michigan Classic Lotto 47 Winning System -- How to Win the Lottery                 SiouxieCrewszbi              Loading...        Unsubscribe from SiouxieCrewszbi?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 157             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   3,739 views         5   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     6    2   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     3            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Mar 13, 2011 http://www.LottoBookSystem.com How to Win The Lottery - Lotto Blackbook Winning Secrets The only guarantee that you might win the lottery no matter where you are is first of all to have a lottery ticket. If you have a ticket than your chances of winning the lottery is one in god knows how many millions. Now, if you have two or more tickets, even hundreds of them, the chances are pretty much the same because the odds of winning a lottery with millions of players are very slim. This is because 99.9 percent of the players base their game on luck. Mr. Larry Blair, a math professor, discovered a lottery system that anyone can use it in order to win the lottery. He won the lottery few times with his method and he wasn't even thinking of sharing his secret with the others but because of the media his identity was revealed and he got threats from all over. One day he even got shot for this and he decided to write a book about it and share it with the rest of the world. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com After this the question is not How to Win the Lottery but When to Win the Lottery. He tried to print a hard copy of the book called The Lotto Blackbook but all the publishers refused because they knew this system really works so he decided to publish it in an electronic form. But there is still a catch and that is only 1000 copies are available for download. You can check here how may copies are left. This book is by any means a winner. If you get a hold of this book and carefully read it and than apply the techniques presented there you are guaranteed to win the lottery. To put his money where his mouth is Mr. Blair guarantees you that if you don't win the lottery in few weeks he will refund your fund if it didn't work for you. That is a good investment for few weeks. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com     Category   Howto & Style     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Seven-Time Lottery Winner Offers Tips to Powerball Winner | ABC News  - Duration: 5:33.  ABC News  2,020,219 views     5:33               Secrets The Lottery Doesn't Want You To Know  - Duration: 7:05.  Grunge  3,129,158 views     7:05      I Have Won The Lottery! - Lottery Success - Super Charged Affirmations  - Duration: 30:30.  Rockstar Affirmations  662,938 views     30:30      Win the 6 digit lottery    YouTube  - Duration: 3:22.  6thsensetv  1,337,045 views     3:22      7-Time Lotto Winner Offers Powerball Tips: Powerball Jackpot Hits $425 Million  - Duration: 2:36.  ABC News  896,944 views     2:36      Double Lottery Winner Secret  - Duration: 2:02.  LotteryNews  546,970 views     2:02      $2M Michigan Lottery Winner Still Collects Food Stamps & Disability  - Duration: 3:11.  RippDemUp TV  34,717 views     3:11      Ways to Win the Lottery - Lottery Winning Systems - Tips from Richard Lustig  - Duration: 3:40.  Gergely Oszkar  331,111 views     3:40      BUYING ALL THE LOTTERY TICKETS IN THE LOTTERY MACHINE!!!!  - Duration: 12:09.  Claw Kicker  3,923,519 views     12:09      How To WIN THE LOTTERY - Guaranteed!  - Duration: 4:24.  Jon  704,522 views     4:24      Powerball Winner Paul White Hilarious Press Conference After Winning $149 million Prize [Full]  - Duration: 9:06.  martysoffice  623,651 views     9:06      $46.5 Mega Millions Jackpot Winners P1 Gold Lottery Club  - Duration: 8:30.  MichiganLottery  95,620 views     8:30      Couple Claims $202.1 Million Powerball Jackpot!  - Duration: 2:54.  Iowa Lottery  136,584 views     2:54      What Happens When You Win The Lottery?  - Duration: 3:23.  NowThis World  1,951,865 views     3:23      Fix The Machine - How To Win The Lottery  - Duration: 2:47.  Derren Brown  111,584 views     2:47      New Emerald 10'S California Lottery Scratcher $10 Card - $$ Symbols  - Duration: 2:44.  Scratcher Heaven  32,643 views     2:44      How to win the LotteryðŸ’°How to win Lotto every week! Lotto Winners Law of Attraction works!  - Duration: 4:35.  Dreaming The Life, Living The Dream  478,719 views     4:35      Buzz: lucky lottery winner  - Duration: 4:16.  WPRI  8,738 views     4:16      $72,000,000 Mega Millions Winner  - Duration: 2:07.  GeorgiaLottery  301,374 views     2:07      Any Time Lotto System - Discover 5 Easy Steps To Win The Lotto Safely  - Duration: 8:02.  anytimelotto  4,155,276 views     8:02     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                   Lottery mathematics   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search         This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (April 2011)  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message )     Lottery mathematics is used to calculate probabilities in a lottery game.     Contents    1  Choosing 6 from 49  2  Odds of getting other possibilities in choosing 6 from 49  3  Pick8-32 odds and calculations  4  Powerballs And Bonus Balls  5  Minimum number of tickets for a match  6  References  7  External links     Choosing 6 from 49 [ edit ]  In a typical 6/49 game, each player chooses six non-duplicate numbers from a range of 1-49. If the six numbers on a ticket match the numbers drawn by the lottery, the ticket holder is a jackpot winner—regardless of the order of the numbers. The probability of this happening is 1 in 13,983,816.  The chance of winning can be demonstrated as follows : The first number drawn has a 1 in 49 chance of matching . When the draw comes to the second number, there are now only 48 balls left in the bag (because the balls already drawn are not returned to the bag) so there is now a 1 in 48 chance of predicting this number.  Thus for each of the 49 ways of choosing the first number there are 48 different ways of choosing the second. This means that the probability of correctly predicting 2 numbers drawn from 49 in the correct order is calculated as 1 in 49 × 48. On drawing the third number there are only 47 ways of choosing the number; but of course we could have arrived at this point in any of 49 × 48 ways, so the chances of correctly predicting 3 numbers drawn from 49, again in the correct order, is 1 in 49 × 48 × 47. This continues until the sixth number has been drawn, giving the final calculation, 49 × 48 × 47 × 46 × 45 × 44, which can also be written as        49  !    (  49  −  6  )  !       {\displaystyle {49! \over (49-6)!}}   or 49 factorial divided by 43 factorial. This works out to 10,068,347,520, which is much bigger than the ~14 million stated above.  However; the order of the 6 numbers is not significant. That is, if a ticket has the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, it wins as long as all the numbers 1 through 6 are drawn, no matter what order they come out in. Accordingly, given any set of 6 numbers, there are 6 × 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 6 ! or 720 orders in which they could be drawn. Dividing 10,068,347,520 by 720 gives 13,983,816, also written as        49  !    6  !  ∗  (  49  −  6  )  !       {\displaystyle {49! \over 6!*(49-6)!}}   , or more generally as          (    n  k    )     =     n  !    k  !  (  n  −  k  )  !       {\displaystyle {n \choose k}={n! \over k!(n-k)!}}   , where n is the number of alternatives and k is the number of choices.   This function is called the combination function; in Microsoft Excel , this function is implemented as COMBIN( n , k ). For example, COMBIN(49, 6) (the calculation shown above), would return 13,983,816. For the rest of this article, we will use the notation        (    n  k    )       {\displaystyle {n \choose k}}   . "Combination" means the group of numbers selected, irrespective of the order in which they are drawn.  An alternative method of calculating the odds is to note that the probability of the first ball corresponding to one of the six chosen is 6/49; the probability of the second ball corresponding to one of the remaining five chosen is 5/48; and so on. This yields a final formula of          (    n  k    )     =     (    49  6    )     =    49  6    ∗    48  5    ∗    47  4    ∗    46  3    ∗    45  2    ∗    44  1      {\displaystyle {n \choose k}={49 \choose 6}={49 \over 6}*{48 \over 5}*{47 \over 4}*{46 \over 3}*{45 \over 2}*{44 \over 1}}     The range of possible combinations for a given lottery can be referred to as the "number space". "Coverage" is the percentage of a lottery's number space that is in play for a given drawing.  Odds of getting other possibilities in choosing 6 from 49 [ edit ]  One must divide the number of combinations producing the given result by the total number of possible combinations (for example,        (    49  6    )     =  13  ,  983  ,  816    {\displaystyle {49 \choose 6}=13,983,816}   ). The numerator equates to the number of ways to select the winning numbers multiplied by the number of ways to select the losing numbers.  For a score of n (for example, if 3 choices match three of the 6 balls drawn, then n = 3),        (    6  n    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose n}}   describes the odds of selecting n winning numbers from the 6 winning numbers. This means that there are 6 - n losing numbers, which are chosen from the 43 losing numbers in        (    43   6  −  n     )       {\displaystyle {43 \choose 6-n}}   ways. The total number of combinations giving that result is, as stated above, the first number multiplied by the second. The expression is therefore         (    6  n    )        (    43   6  −  n     )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose n}{43 \choose 6-n} \over {49 \choose 6}}   .  This can be written in a general form for all lotteries as:         (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}   , where     N    {\displaystyle N}   is the number of balls in lottery,     K    {\displaystyle K}   is the number of balls in a single ticket, and     B    {\displaystyle B}   is the number of matching balls for a winning ticket.  The generalisation of this formula is called the hypergeometric distribution .  This gives the following results:    Score  Calculation  Exact Probability  Approximate Decimal Probability  Approximate 1/Probability    0          (    6  0    )        (    43  6    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 0}{43 \choose 6} \over {49 \choose 6}}    435,461/998,844  0.436  2.2938    1          (    6  1    )        (    43  5    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 1}{43 \choose 5} \over {49 \choose 6}}    68,757/166,474  0.413  2.4212    2          (    6  2    )        (    43  4    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 2}{43 \choose 4} \over {49 \choose 6}}    44,075/332,948  0.132  7.5541    3          (    6  3    )        (    43  3    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 3}{43 \choose 3} \over {49 \choose 6}}    8,815/499,422  0.0177  56.66    4          (    6  4    )        (    43  2    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 4}{43 \choose 2} \over {49 \choose 6}}    645/665,896  0.000969  1,032.4    5          (    6  5    )        (    43  1    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{43 \choose 1} \over {49 \choose 6}}    43/2,330,636  0.0000184  54,200.8    6          (    6  6    )        (    43  0    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 6}{43 \choose 0} \over {49 \choose 6}}    1/13,983,816  0.0000000715  13,983,816    When a bonus number is included, the adjusted odds are: [1]    Score  Calculation  Exact Probability  Approximate Decimal Probability  Approximate 1/Probability    5, bonus not won          (    6  5    )        (     (  43  −  1  )   1    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{(43-1) \choose 1} \over {49 \choose 6}}     0.0000180208  55,491.33    5, bonus won          (    6  5    )        (     (  43  −  1  )    (  1  −  1  )     )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{(43-1) \choose (1-1)} \over {49 \choose 6}}     0.0000004291  2,330,636    Pick8-32 odds and calculations [ edit ]  The Pick8-32 Lottery game by Trillion Coins [2] implements a lotto game ticket where 8 numbers from 01 to 32 are selected in any order and can be repeated. The odds of a play ticket matching all 8 numbers is simple to calculate and is illustrated by the following math.         8  32    ∗    7  32    ∗    6  32    ∗    5  32    ∗    4  32    ∗    3  32    ∗    2  32    ∗    1  32    =    40320  1099511627776      {\displaystyle {8 \over 32}*{7 \over 32}*{6 \over 32}*{5 \over 32}*{4 \over 32}*{3 \over 32}*{2 \over 32}*{1 \over 32}={40320 \over 1099511627776}}     Which means there is a 1 in 27,269,633 chance of matching all 8 numbers. The Trillion Coins lottery is a pay-out-on-every-drawing lotto game. The odds are dependent on the total number of tickets that are played. The player who matches the most of the picked numbers wins.  Powerballs And Bonus Balls [ edit ]  Many lotteries have a powerball (or "bonus ball"). If the powerball is drawn from a pool of numbers different from the main lottery, the odds are multiplied by the number of powerballs. For example, in the 6 from 49 lottery, given 10 powerball numbers, then the odds of getting a score of 3 and the powerball would be 1 in 56.66 × 10, or 566.6 (the probability would be divided by 10, to give an exact value of 8815/4994220). Another example of such a game is Mega Millions , albeit with different jackpot odds.  Where more than 1 powerball is drawn from a separate pool of balls to the main lottery (for example, in the EuroMillions game), the odds of the different possible powerball matching scores are calculated using the method shown in the " other scores " section above (in other words, the powerballs are like a mini-lottery in their own right), and then multiplied by the odds of achieving the required main-lottery score.  If the powerball is drawn from the same pool of numbers as the main lottery, then, for a given target score, the number of winning combinations includes the powerball. For games based on the Canadian lottery (such as the lottery of the United Kingdom ), after the 6 main balls are drawn, an extra ball is drawn from the same pool of balls, and this becomes the powerball (or "bonus ball"). An extra prize is given for matching 5 balls and the bonus ball. As described in the " other scores " section above, the number of ways one can obtain a score of 5 from a single ticket is        (    6  5    )        (    43  1    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{43 \choose 1}}   or 258. Since the number of remaining balls is 43, and the ticket has 1 unmatched number remaining, 1/43 of these 258 combinations will match the next ball drawn (the powerball), leaving 258/43 = 6 ways of achieving it. Therefore, the odds of getting a score of 5 and the powerball are       6       (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 1 in 2,330,636.  Of the 258 combinations that match 5 of the main 6 balls, in 42/43 of them the remaining number will not match the powerball, giving odds of       258  ⋅     42    43          (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {258\cdot {{42} \over {43}}} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 3/166,474 (approximately 55,491.33) for obtaining a score of 5 without matching the powerball.  Using the same principle, the odds of getting a score of 2 and the powerball are        (    6  2    )        (    43  4    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 2}{43 \choose 4}}   = 1,851,150 for the score of 2 multiplied by the probability of one of the remaining four numbers matching the bonus ball, which is 4/43. Since 1,851,150 × (4/43) = 172,200, the probability of obtaining the score of 2 and the bonus ball is       172  ,  200       (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {172,200} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 1025/83237. This gives approximate decimal odds of 1 in 81.2.  The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with one bonus ball from the     N    {\displaystyle N}   pool of balls is:         K  −  B    N  −  K        (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {K-B \over N-K}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with zero bonus ball from the     N    {\displaystyle N}   pool of balls is:         N  −  K  −  K  +  B    N  −  K        (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {N-K-K+B \over N-K}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with one bonus ball from a separate pool of     P    {\displaystyle P}   balls is:        1  P       (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {1 \over P}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with no bonus ball from a separate pool of     P    {\displaystyle P}   balls is:         P  −  1   P       (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {P-1 \over P}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    Minimum number of tickets for a match [ edit ]  It is a hard (and often open) problem to calculate the minimum number of tickets one needs to purchase to guarantee that at least one of these tickets matches at least 2 numbers. In the 5-from-90 lotto, the minimum number of tickets that can guarantee a ticket with at least 2 matches is 100. [3]  References [ edit ]     ^  Zabrocki, Mike (2003-03-01). "Calculating the Probabilities of Winning Lotto 6/49,Version 3"  (PDF) . Retrieved 2016-08-14 .   ^  "(dead link)" . Archived from the original on 2016-10-21 . Retrieved 2016-08-14 .   ^  Z. Füredi , G. J. Székely , and Z. Zubor (1996). "On the lottery problem". Journal of Combinatorial Designs . Wiley. 4 (1): 5–10. doi : 10.1002/(sici)1520-6610(1996)4:1<5::aid-jcd2>3.3.co;2-w .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link )  [1]     External links [ edit ]   Euler's Analysis of the Genoese Lottery at Convergence  Lottery Mathematics  13,983,816 and the Lottery (James Clewett) – Numberphile, by Brady Haran ( Mathematical Sciences Research Institute )        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lottery_mathematics&oldid=822178750 "  Categories : Lotteries Combinatorics Gambling mathematics Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list Articles needing additional references from April 2011 All articles needing additional references      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    Српски / srpski   Edit links        This page was last edited on 24 January 2018, at 21:18.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                                MLive     Michigan         Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan             Menu          Home   Set Your Edition  Michigan                News   open      Sports   open      High School Sports   open      Weather   open      Business   open      Obituaries/In Memoriam   open      Jobs     Autos     Real Estate   open      Michigan's Best   open      Entertainment   open      Food & Dining   open      Lifestyle   open      Opinion   open      Photos & Videos   open      Become a Member   open      Classifieds     Celebrations     Find&Save   open      Local Businesses     Place an Ad     Follow Us   open     Subscribe         Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Crime    Databases    Education    Environment    Health    Lottery    Obituaries    Politics & Elections    U.S. & World    Weather    Regions   open      News subscriptions   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Grand Rapids-Area Towns    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Lions    Pistons    Red Wings    Tigers    Broncos    Cardinals    Chippewas    Eagles    Lakers    Spartans    Wolverines    Small Colleges    More Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Auto Racing    Boxing    Golf    Outdoors    West Michigan Whitecaps    Great Lakes Loons    Grand Rapids Griffins    Kalamazoo Cobras    Kalamazoo Wings    Muskegon Lumberjacks    Saginaw Spirit    Flint Firebirds    Kalamazoo Growlers    Grand Rapids Drive        Back to Main Menu    Football    Boys Basketball    Girls Basketball    Baseball    Softball    Boys Soccer    Girls Soccer    Wrestling    Girls Volleyball    Boys Ice Hockey    Boys Track & Field    Girls Track & Field    Boys Cross Country    Girls Cross Country    Other Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Boys Golf    Girls Golf    Boys Tennis    Girls Tennis    Boys Swimming    Girls Swimming    Boys Lacrosse    Girls Lacrosse    Competitive Cheer    Boys Bowling    Girls Bowling    Girls Gymnastics    Field Hockey    Boys Water Polo    Girls Water Polo    Boys Skiing    Girls Skiing    Boys Rowing    Girls Rowing    Boys Rugby    Equestrian        Back to Main Menu    Forecasts from Mark Torregrossa    Michigan Weather News    Radar & More        Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Jackson & Lansing    Metro Detroit    Mid-Michigan    West Michigan    More Business   open          Back to Main Menu    Business Resource Center    Michigan Jobs    Press Releases        Back to Main Menu    View current obituaries    Place obituary        Back to Main Menu    Homes for Sale    New Homes    For Rent    Foreclosures    Commercial    Real Estate News    Resources   open          Back to Main Menu    Home Buying    Sell My Home    Rental Living    Home Ideas    Mortgages and Loans    I'm Moving        Back to Main Menu    Flavor    Uniquely Michigan    Places We Love        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Michigan's Best    Event Listings    Post an Event    Movies & Reviews    Television    Music & Reviews    Comics    Celebrities    Puzzles        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Cooking & Recipes    Healthy Eating    Michigan's Best    Beer    Drinks    Wine        Back to Main Menu    Celebrations    Health & Fitness    Home & Garden    Travel        Back to Main Menu    By Region   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Videos    Ann Arbor Photos    Bay City Photos    Detroit Photos    Flint Photos    Grand Rapids Photos    Jackson Photos    Kalamazoo Photos    Lansing Photos    Muskegon Photos    Saginaw Photos        Back to Main Menu    Manage your Subscriptions    My Michigan Membership Benefits    eReplica    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Ann Arbor/Detroit    Jackson/Lansing    Flint    Saginaw    Bay City    Grand Rapids    Muskegon    Kalamazoo/Battle Creek        Back to Main Menu    Visit our Facebook Page    Follow us on Twitter    Visit us on Google Plus        Back to Main Menu  The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News      Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan                   Back to Main Menu   Close   Customize Your Weather   Set Your Location:   Enter City and State or Zip Code     Congratulations!  Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.       AccuWeather.com Quick Look   Change your current location »   View Full Weather Report            Search    Account  Sign In       Close    Sign in to MLive        You are signed in as     Edit  Public Profile  Sign Out           Subscribe        The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News        Michigan  Change Region              Michigan Entertainment     Michigan woman wins $4.5 million in Lotto 47 after playing for years       Posted on October 16, 2015 at  4:36 PM       Edward Pevos        STERLING HEIGHTS, MI - Persistence finally paid off for a Michigan woman. She won $4.5 million playing the Michigan Lottery's Lotto 47 game.  The lucky player from Macomb County near Detroit, who chose to remain anonymous, matched all six numbers drawn Wednesday, October 14, 2015 to win the big prize. She bought her winning ticket at the CVS Pharmacy, located at 43611 Schoenherr Road in Sterling Heights.  "I've been buying Lottery tickets at the CVS for years, and can't believe I finally got a jackpot winner," said the player. "Each day on a break from work, my friend and I would go to the CVS to purchase tickets."  The player realized she was the jackpot winner on Thursday afternoon during her usual trip to CVS to purchase tickets.  "We went to the store on our break like we always do. I asked the clerk to print the winning numbers. When I saw my ticket matched all six numbers I started screaming, crying and celebrating with my friend."  Once they left the CVS, the player called her husband to tell him they had just become millionaires.  "He thought I was kidding. When he realized we had won $4.5 million he was in shock."  The player chose to receive her jackpot prize as a one-time lump sum payment of about $2.9 million rather than an annuity.  With her winnings, the player plans to pay off her family's bills, pay for college for her children, and take a family vacation.  "Winning the jackpot has been absolutely crazy, I think I've been shaking ever since I found out I won. We have three college-aged children, and knowing that we can pay for their education expenses without sinking into debt is such a burden lifted off our shoulders," the player said.  About Lotto 47: Each Lotto 47 play is $1. Players select six numbers from one to 47 for a chance to win a jackpot starting at $1 million and that grows until someone wins it. For an additional $1 per game, players may add EZMatch to their ticket for a chance to win up to $500 instantly. Lotto 47 drawings take place on Wednesday and Saturday at 7:29 p.m. Tickets may be purchased until 7:08 p.m. on the day of the drawing.  Edward Pevos is the Mlive entertainment reporter for Detroit and Southeast Michigan. You can follow him on Twitter @PaparazzoPevos        About Us    MLive Media Group    Our Team    Advertise    Frequently Asked Questions      Contact Us    Jobs at MLive      Subscriptions    Newspaper | Digital Editions | eNewsletters    The Ann Arbor News    The Bay City Times    The Flint Journal    The Grand Rapids Press    Jackson Citizen Patriot    Kalamazoo Gazette    Muskegon Chronicle    The Saginaw News        MLive Sections    News    Business    Sports    High School Sports    Entertainment    Living    Opinion    Obituaries      Jobs    Autos    Real Estate    Apartment Rentals    Classifieds    Local Deals    Local Businesses    Business Resource Center      Your Regional News Pages    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids      Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw      Mobile    Mobile apps | Tablet apps        More on MLive    Photos    Video    Weather    Post a job      Post a free classified ad    Sell your car    Sell/Rent your home    Apartments and Rentals    Sponsor Content      Follow Us    Twitter | Facebook | YouTube        Advance Local  Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy   © 2018 MLive Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group.   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.    Ad Choices                         MLive     Michigan         Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan             Menu          Home   Set Your Edition  Michigan                News   open      Sports   open      High School Sports   open      Weather   open      Business   open      Obituaries/In Memoriam   open      Jobs     Autos     Real Estate   open      Michigan's Best   open      Entertainment   open      Food & Dining   open      Lifestyle   open      Opinion   open      Photos & Videos   open      Become a Member   open      Classifieds     Celebrations     Find&Save   open      Local Businesses     Place an Ad     Follow Us   open     Subscribe         Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Crime    Databases    Education    Environment    Health    Lottery    Obituaries    Politics & Elections    U.S. & World    Weather    Regions   open      News subscriptions   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Grand Rapids-Area Towns    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Lions    Pistons    Red Wings    Tigers    Broncos    Cardinals    Chippewas    Eagles    Lakers    Spartans    Wolverines    Small Colleges    More Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Auto Racing    Boxing    Golf    Outdoors    West Michigan Whitecaps    Great Lakes Loons    Grand Rapids Griffins    Kalamazoo Cobras    Kalamazoo Wings    Muskegon Lumberjacks    Saginaw Spirit    Flint Firebirds    Kalamazoo Growlers    Grand Rapids Drive        Back to Main Menu    Football    Boys Basketball    Girls Basketball    Baseball    Softball    Boys Soccer    Girls Soccer    Wrestling    Girls Volleyball    Boys Ice Hockey    Boys Track & Field    Girls Track & Field    Boys Cross Country    Girls Cross Country    Other Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Boys Golf    Girls Golf    Boys Tennis    Girls Tennis    Boys Swimming    Girls Swimming    Boys Lacrosse    Girls Lacrosse    Competitive Cheer    Boys Bowling    Girls Bowling    Girls Gymnastics    Field Hockey    Boys Water Polo    Girls Water Polo    Boys Skiing    Girls Skiing    Boys Rowing    Girls Rowing    Boys Rugby    Equestrian        Back to Main Menu    Forecasts from Mark Torregrossa    Michigan Weather News    Radar & More        Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Jackson & Lansing    Metro Detroit    Mid-Michigan    West Michigan    More Business   open          Back to Main Menu    Business Resource Center    Michigan Jobs    Press Releases        Back to Main Menu    View current obituaries    Place obituary        Back to Main Menu    Homes for Sale    New Homes    For Rent    Foreclosures    Commercial    Real Estate News    Resources   open          Back to Main Menu    Home Buying    Sell My Home    Rental Living    Home Ideas    Mortgages and Loans    I'm Moving        Back to Main Menu    Flavor    Uniquely Michigan    Places We Love        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Michigan's Best    Event Listings    Post an Event    Movies & Reviews    Television    Music & Reviews    Comics    Celebrities    Puzzles        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Cooking & Recipes    Healthy Eating    Michigan's Best    Beer    Drinks    Wine        Back to Main Menu    Celebrations    Health & Fitness    Home & Garden    Travel        Back to Main Menu    By Region   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Videos    Ann Arbor Photos    Bay City Photos    Detroit Photos    Flint Photos    Grand Rapids Photos    Jackson Photos    Kalamazoo Photos    Lansing Photos    Muskegon Photos    Saginaw Photos        Back to Main Menu    Manage your Subscriptions    My Michigan Membership Benefits    eReplica    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Ann Arbor/Detroit    Jackson/Lansing    Flint    Saginaw    Bay City    Grand Rapids    Muskegon    Kalamazoo/Battle Creek        Back to Main Menu    Visit our Facebook Page    Follow us on Twitter    Visit us on Google Plus        Back to Main Menu  The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News      Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan                   Back to Main Menu   Close   Customize Your Weather   Set Your Location:   Enter City and State or Zip Code     Congratulations!  Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.       AccuWeather.com Quick Look   Change your current location »   View Full Weather Report            Search    Account  Sign In       Close    Sign in to MLive        You are signed in as     Edit  Public Profile  Sign Out           Subscribe        The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News        Michigan  Change Region                  comments        2-time Michigan lottery winner says Mega Millions $344 million jackpot won't cash out tonight      Joseph Palmarchuk wins lottery twice in two years           18  Gallery: Joseph Palmarchuk wins lottery twice in two years       Print  Email    Jessica Shepherd | jessica_shepherd@mlive.com  By Jessica Shepherd | jessica_shepherd@mlive.com  The Saginaw News   Follow on Twitter  on December 10, 2013 at  3:45 PM, updated December 10, 2013 at  9:01 PM            comments                 "Anybody and everybody has a chance to win it," said Palmarchuk.         SAGINAW, MI — Planning to win the $344 million Mega Millions jackpot tonight? Two-time lottery winner Joe Palmarchuk says don't bet on it. Palmarchuk, a resident of Barryton, 30 miles northwest of Mount Pleasant, is somewhat of an expert on winning lotteries, having won two separate jackpots of more than $1 million each since 2011.  He doesn't have a good feeling for himself — or anyone else — claiming the big prize tonight, Tuesday, Dec. 10.  "The Mega ball - I don't think it's gonna go tonight," Palmarchuk said. Palmarchuk thinks that what is now the fourth-largest Mega Millions jackpot in history will keep climbing until it is the single largest in history. "I think it'll probably hit the $1 billion mark," he said. It hasn't kept Palmarchuk from trying his luck a third time. For tonight's 11 p.m. drawing, Palmarchuk has purchased 20 easy pick tickets. He said he might grab five more easy picks before the numbers are announced tonight. "You can only chase it so much," Palmarchuk said. "If it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen."  If Palmarchuk is correct and no one is left holding a ticket with five correctly chosen numbers for white balls and the single gold Mega ball number, there are still plenty of other prizes available. Related: Michigan man, bankrupt before winning two $1 million jackpots in two years, plans to win again  Anyone who matches just the five white balls will win at least $1 million. If a multiplier was purchased, the ticket is worth $5 million dollars.  Smaller prizes also are available. The odds of winning any dollar amount in a Mega Millions drawing is 1 in 14.7.  "Anybody and everybody has a chance to win it," Palmarchuk said.  That's what led Saginaw County resident Cindy Thiel to buy a Mega Millions ticket, despite the fact that she isn't a big lottery player. "That's the popular draw right now - Mega Millions," said Thiel, owner of First Turn Convenience Store, 2935 S. Graham, in Swan Creek Township.  In March, her store received some lottery-prompted publicity after a Hemlock man won $80,000 in a Fantasy 5 drawing . Since then, Thiel said lottery sales at the store have increased.  "It helps boost the morale around the area, if they think you sold a big ticket," Thiel said.  Thiel said she is happy to see the large number of customers buying Mega Millions tickets, since she hopes to sell another big winner.  "Come out and buy tickets," she said. "We’re looking to sell a big one."  After tonight's big drawing, the spotlight falls on the $122 million Powerball jackpot, with a drawing held Wednesday, Dec. 11. "They’ll play the Mega tonight, then they’ll be back in tomorrow to buy the Powerball," Thiel said.  Palmarchuk said he has already purchased some Powerball tickets at $2 a piece.  "It’s gotten a little more pricey, but your odds are better," he said.                                Joseph and Phillis Palmarchuk talk about their million-dollar jackpot wins  A Michigan man who lives near Mount Pleasant has beaten one in 10 million odds to win $1.35 million in a recent Michigan Lottery Classic Lotto 47 drawing. What makes Joseph Palmarchuk's win even more unbelievable, though, is that it's his second million-dollar lottery win since 2011, the Michigan Lottery reports.     For other who decide to play, Palmarchuk has a few words of advice. “My biggest word of advice is don’t take food of the table to buy a ticket," he said.  Palmarchuk doesn't have that problem, as he plays with money acquired through his two jackpot wins. He has said he sees more wins in his future.  "I’m gonna hit one more mediocre one and then I’m gonna hit a Powerball or Mega Millions," Palmarchuk said. "After that, I'll retire." The reason for the wins?  "I’m just lucky," he said. "That’s all there is to it."  For the latest on Michigan Lottery, check out MLive.com's lottery page for Daily 3, Daily 4, Poker Lotto, Keno, Mega Millions, Powerball winning numbers and more.  The official Michigan Lottery site offers more information on instant tickets, raffles and other lottery games.  — Jessica Fleischman is an entertainment reporter with MLive/The Saginaw News. Contact her at 989-996-0687, email her at jfleisc2@mlive.com or follow her on Twitter or Facebook .                                      Find Local      Homes for Sale  Apartments  Car Dealers  Used Cars  Jobs  Businesses         Find a job  Buy or sell a car  Find a place to live  See what's for sale  Find a business  View obituaries      Connect with MLive        Subscribe to our newsletters         Like us on Facebook         Subscribe on YouTube           Most Read    Active Discussions                            About Us    MLive Media Group    Our Team    Advertise    Frequently Asked Questions      Contact Us    Jobs at MLive      Subscriptions    Newspaper | Digital Editions | eNewsletters    The Ann Arbor News    The Bay City Times    The Flint Journal    The Grand Rapids Press    Jackson Citizen Patriot    Kalamazoo Gazette    Muskegon Chronicle    The Saginaw News        MLive Sections    News    Business    Sports    High School Sports    Entertainment    Living    Opinion    Obituaries      Jobs    Autos    Real Estate    Apartment Rentals    Classifieds    Local Deals    Local Businesses    Business Resource Center      Your Regional News Pages    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids      Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw      Mobile    Mobile apps | Tablet apps        More on MLive    Photos    Video    Weather    Post a job      Post a free classified ad    Sell your car    Sell/Rent your home    Apartments and Rentals    Sponsor Content      Follow Us    Twitter | Facebook | YouTube        Advance Local  Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy   © 2018 MLive Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group.   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.    Ad Choices               Subscribe Now for about $2.31 Per Week Home News Sports Business Autos Life + Home Entertainment Opinion Photo + Video Subscribe More Home News Sports Business Autos Life + Home Entertainment Opinion Photo + Video Subscribe Firefly Hi Already a subscriber? Log in Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device. Subscribe Now Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login? Activate your digital access. Manage your account settings. My Account View the E-Newspaper Manage your Newsletters View your Insider deals and more Member ID Card Log Out Follow Search Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Email Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Big jackpots get all the attention, but the better bet for now is the low-key Lotto 47 Post to Facebook Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Big jackpots get all the attention, but the better bet for now is the low-key Lotto 47  Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/2klDdxe Cancel Send Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 4 Join the Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Neal Rubin , The Detroit News Published 7:22 p.m. ET Jan. 23, 2017 | Updated 5:05 p.m. ET Jan. 30, 2017 Buy Photo Employee Andrew Bahri, left, 19, of Walled Lake, sells a Powerball lottery ticket to customer Kendra Burgess, right, 20, of Hazel Park, as she shops with friend, Alexandra Whittaker, center, 25, of Milford. . (Photo: Todd McInturf / The Detroit News) Buy Photo CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 4 COMMENT EMAIL MORE I would not encourage you to buy a Lotto 47 ticket. Gambling is a vice, and there’s all that sin and perdition and stuff to deal with. Besides, I don’t want the competition. Speaking as a former Las Vegan, though, and as someone who attended college on a seven-card stud scholarship, I will say this: If you’re inclined to buy a lotto ticket between now and Wednesday, think small. Wednesday night’s multi-state Powerball jackpot stands at $206 million. Also Wednesday, the humble, Michigan-only Lotto 47 game will offer a top prize of $19,600,000. By my calculations, $19.6 million is a lot less than $206 million. Still, in a rarity for a jackpot-style game, Lotto 47 is temporarily a good bet. Meantime, Powerball remains what it always is, a $2 tax on a daydream. I should point out that I am not here to shill for the Michigan Lottery , which has an ample advertising budget and seems to be thriving on its own. I am also not suggesting that “a good bet” and “a smart bet” are necessarily the same thing. I should also point out that I will soon interrupt your day with a few numbers — though if it’s any more appealing, we will also discuss bananas and Kim Kardashian. And, I should quickly introduce you to Ruth Cassidy, the president of the Ann Arbor chapter of the American Statistical Association . Cassidy has never purchased a lottery ticket, and as someone on close personal terms with percentages and probabilities, she says that “even if it seems like your chances of a higher payout are better now, your chances of winning at all are still basically zero." With those disclaimers out of the way, let us gradually move on to Lotto 47, the Libertarian party of the lottery system: Yeah, it’s on the ballot, but it doesn’t get any love or any billboards or even any of those lighted signs in the front windows of gas stations. About those bananas It’s human nature to get fixated on the jumbo jackpots. The problem for the Michigan Lottery is that the more we see prizes of $150 million on up, the harder it is to get our attention. As spokesman Jeff Holyfield puts it, “All jackpots are good, but bigger jackpots are better.” What the wagering public typically doesn’t consider are odds. Not only does a Powerball ticket cost $2, twice as much as Lotto 47, the chances of winning the grand prize are 1 in 292,201,338. A University of Colorado professor named Paul Campos figured out that with about 300 million pocket phones in use in the United States, and with Kim Kardashian owning three of them, you are three times more likely to dial a random cell number and reach her than you are to cash the big ticket. Then there’s the banana analogy , as expressed in Good Magazine. Assume you went to Kroger and bought 292,201,338 bananas, at an average length of 71/2 inches. Lay them end-to-end and they would wrap around the 24,901 miles of the equator, then extend almost 10 miles into space. To win at Powerball, all you have to do is pick the one correct banana. Of course, occasionally somebody does, which is what keeps us lining up at 7-Eleven. (That, and Wild Cherry Slurpees.) Improving your odds The Lotto 47 jackpot starts small, a mere $1 million compared to $40 million for Powerball. It grows slowly, since lottery players prefer the flashier games like Powerball and Mega Millions, and it’s won with relative frequency, because the odds are a comparatively trifling 10,737,573-1. Flukishly, however, the jackpot has gone unclaimed since June 22. Wednesday’s $19.6 million top prize would be the second-highest ever, next to a $23.6 million hit in 2008. It has become what gamblers call an overlay, meaning the payoff is greater than the odds against claiming it. For an analogy far easier to swallow than 292 million bananas, consider that the population of Michigan is 9.91 million. Throw in greater Toledo at 651,429, and that’s just about the same number as the Lotto 47 odds. It almost makes winning seem likely — which, to toss out one last dose of reality, would be incorrect. Cassidy is a statistician in the surgery department at the University of Michigan Health System . As a numbers ninja, “I’ve been asked for advice,” she says. Her response is always, “Don’t play the lottery.” But if you’re inclined to, this could be the week to have faith — just a little of it, maybe $19.6 million worth. nrubin@detroitnews.com @nealrubin_dn CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 4 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Read or Share this story: http://detne.ws/2klDdxe More Stories Finley: Ask Zuckerberg why he censors conservatives April 9, 2018, 11:02 p.m. Column: Work requirements can save Medicaid April 9, 2018, 10:54 p.m. Column: Support recreational fishing April 9, 2018, 10:58 p.m. Bankole: In search of black-friendly law enforcement April 8, 2018, 10:44 p.m. Column: GOP gov race not inevitable April 8, 2018, 10:44 p.m. Column: No warrantless searches on buses April 9, 2018, 10:54 p.m.            Home  American Lotteries  Canadian Lotteries  Lottery Tools  FAQs  Contact      About Michigan Lotto 47   Lotto 47, previously known as Classic Lotto 47, is Michigan's lottery.  This game replaced the WinFall lottery.  The first draw was on May 18, 2005, with draws occurring biweekly on Wednesday and Saturday at approximately 7:29pm.  Players choose 6 numbers from a pool of 47 numbers. Although our website contains lotteries whose draw are made primarily from Ball machines, we have included Lotto 47 in our databases as well.  For Lotto 47, 6 numbers are randomly generated from a random number generator.  You can supplement your ticket withe EZMatch for more prizes.  Summary for Michigan Lotto 47   Number of Draws:    1345   Official Website:    https://www.michiganlottery.com   First Draw:    Wednesday, May 18, 2005   Country:    US   Draw Days:    Wednesday|Saturday   Draw Format:    6 Main Numbers   Play Format:    Play 6 Main Numbers   Main Number Choices:    47   Odds of Winning Michigan Lotto 47  Match Prize Chances of Winning ($1 game)  6 of 6 Jackpot 1 in 10,737,573  5 of 6 $2500 1 in 43,649  4 of 6 $100 1 in 873  3 of 6 $5 1 in 50  Overall odds are 1 in 47   Recent Draws for Michigan Lotto 47  Saturday, April 7, 2018 9 23 28 35 41 45 Wednesday, April 4, 2018 9 33 35 41 45 47 Saturday, March 31, 2018 7 8 13 17 41 45 Wednesday, March 28, 2018 3 15 33 34 37 46 Saturday, March 24, 2018 1 2 9 21 28 29  Michigan Lotto 47 Tools  Click here to view past draw numbers for Michigan Lotto 47  Click here to perform a Quick-Pick for Michigan Lotto 47 Click here to search for your numbers for Michigan Lotto 47   Michigan Lotto 47 Frequency Chart  (From: Wednesday, May 18, 2005)                 Follow us:   Sitemap  Copyright © 2014 - 2018 Lotto Database. All rights reserved.  All results are unofficial.  Please view our disclaimer.   . .. .                                            MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Games of Chance » Lotteries and Scratchcard Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Choose Lottery Numbers  Four Methods: Choosing Frequently Picked Numbers Using the Delta System Choosing Lucky Numbers Using Random Numbers Community Q&A  Though playing the lottery is a game of chance, that doesn’t mean you can’t have a method for choosing your lottery numbers. Of course, there's no perfect method for choosing winning lottery numbers, but there are several ways that you can do it. You can take a scientific or mathematical approach, gamble and choose randomly, follow your gut. Experiment with a few different ways. You never know. You might get lucky.         Steps    Method  1   Choosing Frequently Picked Numbers           1   Look up the frequency chart for previous lottery draws. Most state lottery programs offer charts showing how often each number has been drawn during a given time frame. For instance, it shows how often the number 1 was chosen as a Powerball number between 1997 and 2015. You can view a Powerball frequency chart via the Iowa State Lottery. here ). [1]   If you can look up the all-time frequencies, that's the best possible data set for you to analyze. It’s more comprehensive, and you should base your numbers on as large a time frame as possible.  There's no clear way to know if you should be looking up frequent winning numbers or numbers that come up less frequently. Look up both types of numbers and play sequences with a combo of both if you wish.  However, winning numbers that come up more frequently are likely to remain frequent winners. If you play a number that doesn't come up as frequently, then you simply may need to wait a while to see if it comes up when its "due" to win.  Make sure you're looking up the right frequency chart for the lottery game you plan to play. For instance, Powerball stats will differ from Mega Millions stats.            2   Choose your numbers based on the frequency chart. Review the numbers that are the most frequently chosen and the least frequently chosen. Review the odds for those as well as the numbers in between. [2] After you've looked over the odds, you have two options:  Select numbers that are drawn frequently. If you notice that a few numbers stand out for being drawn significantly more often than the others, consider including them in your pick. Be aware, though, that several other people will be trying this tactic; if you win with frequently picked numbers, you might be at a greater risk of having to share the prize with other winners.  Select numbers that are drawn less frequently. Choosing numbers that aren't picked very often might seem counterintuitive, but consider this: If everyone else is busy picking frequently drawn numbers and you win with your “long-shot” picks, you might not have to share the prize with as many other winners.           3   Acknowledge that each number still has an equal chance of being drawn. Looking at frequency charts might show you which numbers tend to be drawn, but keep in mind that when the actual lottery drawing comes around, each number still has an absolutely equal chance of being picked. It’s all in the luck of the draw. [3]               Score 0 / 0    Method 1 Quiz  Why should you pick numbers that are drawn less frequently?     Because you won't have to share the prize with as many people if you win.  Yes! Numbers that are drawn less frequently are also picked less frequently by players. Therefore, if you do win, you'll share the prize with less people. Read on for another quiz question.    Because they are due to hit soon.  Not exactly! Remember that each number has an equal chance to be drawn. Picking numbers that are not drawn frequently does not mean that they will come up sooner. Click on another answer to find the right one...    Because they yield a higher jackpot.  Nope! The jackpot is the same no matter which numbers you pick. Picking numbers that are drawn infrequently will not increase your winnings. Click on another answer to find the right one...              Method  2   Using the Delta System          1   Learn the Delta System. The Delta Lotto method is way to choose lottery numbers based on a statistical study of numbers that are next to each other. This information has been related back to winning lottery numbers, which has formed the basis for this method. In other words, the delta method is based on research, but keep in mind there’s no guarantee you’re going to win if you choose your numbers this way. [4]          2   Choose a very low number. The number should be between 1 and 5. For instance, the number 1 is a good number to choose because often, more than 60% of the time, the number 1 is part of the winning delta numbers included in the series. However, feel free to choose another low number that you feel good about such as 3 or 5 There is no exact science. Example: 1         3   Pick two numbers between 1 and 8. There are a number of combinations that you could choose from. For instance, you could choose 3 and 5. Or, 2 and 6 could be an option. You could also choose two consecutive numbers like 7 and 8. Example: 3 and 5 Sequence: 1-3-5         4   Pick a number very close to 8. It can be above the number 8 , such as the number 9. Or, it can be below, for instance, 7. For the fourth number, pick something pretty close to 8 ,either above or below it. Example:9 Sequence 1-3-5-9         5   Pick two numbers between 8 and 15. Choose two numbers a few numbers away from each other such as 11 and 13. Another option could be 14 and 9 or 10 and 14. Choose the numbers randomly or choose your favorite numbers between the given range. The smaller number doesn’t have to be listed first. Example: 11 and 13 Sequence: 1-3-5-9-11-13.         6   Write down your delta numbers. Once you have selected 6 numbers in the method described, you have created a six-digit lottery number sequence. Write it down in the order that you selected them. In our example, the numbers are 1-3-5-9-11-13         7   Add up the numbers. Make sure the sum of the numbers is not greater than the highest number allowed in the game you’re playing. For instance, if the highest lottery number you can play is 56, then our numbers are within the range because the total sum equals 42. 1 +3+5+9+11+13 = 42  If your is within about about 15 from the total but not greater than the total, then you have selected some good numbers.  If you need to select different numbers so that you sum is not greater than the highest lottery number, then do so.  It’s okay if numbers repeat themselves where applicable. For instance, you’re number close to 8 could be the number 9, and you could also select 9 for your number between 8 and 15. If you need to do this to make sure that your sum total is not greater, that is fine. Remember numbers sometimes repeat in winning lottery numbers.           8   Rearrange the delta numbers. Delta numbers aren’t usually in sequential order. So, change the numbers around a bit. Put the first number last and the last number first. Put the numbers in the middle at the end or beginning. Rearrange them so that they are in a different order. For example, our numbers rearranged could be 1-3-5-9-11-13 or it could be 5-3-11-9-1-13. There are a number of different variations that you could have. [5]          9   Write down the final delta number. For now, our delta series is 5-3-11-9-1-13. This is not your final lottery number. You will use these numbers to create your lottery number sequence.         10   Write down the first lottery number. The first delta number of the series becomes the first lottery number of your lottery sequence. It remains unchanged. However, the remainder of the numbers will be added together to create the lottery numbers. For example:, the first lottery number is 5. Example: 5         11   Add the first lottery number and the second delta number together. (5 +3 =8) This sum of these two become your second lottery number, the number 4. Repeat this for the rest of the delta numbers. Adding the sum of the numbers next to each other is how you create each number in the series to create your final lottery number sequence. If our delta numbers are 5-3-11-9-1-13, then our lottery numbers are created in the following way:  The first lottery number is 5. Example: 5-  The second lottery number is created by adding the first lottery number to the second delta number. For our example, we get 8 as the sum of 5 and 3. The number 8 is our second lottery number. For example, the number ares 5,8 so far. Example: 5-8-  Add the second lottery number to the third delta number. For example, the number 8 is our second lottery number. Our third delta number is 11. For instance, the number 8 plus 11 equals 19. ( 8+11 =19) So, nineteen is our third lottery number. For example, the lottery numbers are 5,8,19 so far. Example: 5-8-19-  Add the third lottery number and the fourth delta number. In our case, 19 is our third lottery number and 9 is our fourth delta number. For instance, 19 plus 9 equals 28. (19+9 = 28) Twenty-eight is our fourth lottery number. The numbers are 5,8,19 and 28 thus far. Example 5-8-19-28-  Add the fourth lottery number and the fifth delta number. For our example, 28 is our fourth lottery number and 1 is our fifth delta number. Twenty-eight plus 1 equals 29. (28 +1 = 29) So, Twenty-nine is our fifth lottery number. Thus far, the numbers are 5,8,19, 28 and 29. Example: 5-8-19-28-29-  Add the fifth lottery number and the sixth delta number. In this case, 29 is our fifth lottery number and 13 is our sixth delta number. 29 + 13 =42 . Forty-two is our sixth lottery number. The lottery numbers are 5,8,19,28,29 and 42 so far. Example: 5-8-19-28-29-42  Our final lottery numbers are 5-8-19-28-29-42. Now, your numbers are ready to play. Repeat the process again to create another delta number.           Score 0 / 0    Method 2 Quiz  When using the delta system, the first number you pick should fit what parameters?     It should be between 8 and 15.  Not exactly! You pick 2 numbers between 8 and 15 to complete the fifth and sixth numbers in your delta series. However, this is not how you select the first number. Try another answer...    It should be very close to 8.  Not quite! This is how you select the fourth, not the first, number in your delta series. Guess again!    It should be between 1 and 8.  Nope! This is how you choose the second 2 numbers in your delta series. You select the first in a different way. Try again...    It should be a very low number.  Nice! The number 1 is a good choice because it is 1 of the winning numbers (when using the delta system) more than 60 percent of time. Read on for another quiz question.              Method  3   Choosing Lucky Numbers          1   Choose numbers that are significant to you. If you believe in lucky numbers, they're probably digits that center around important dates or events in your life. Mix the numbers of significant numbers together. For instance, you might use your grandfather’s birthday month and year,10/1929 and your mother’s birth month and day, 3/21. Together you might come up with something like 10-19-3-21-29. Other examples of significant numbers might include::  Birthdays: Yours, your children's, your spouse's, and so on.  Anniversaries: This could be a wedding anniversary date, or the date of another significant event.  Ages: Using your age or the ages of your loved ones is also a common practice.  Addresses: The address of your childhood or current home is another tactic you can try.  Phone numbers: Try breaking down your phone number into a sequence of single- or double-digit lotto numbers.           2   Choose numbers you consider lucky. Some folks have a lucky number they use for everything. It isn't connected a birthday or anything like that, they just like the number. If this is the case for you, add your lucky number to your lottery number. You never know. You might get lucky!  If you're playing a lottery game such as Powerball, consider making your lucky number the Powerball pick.  Also if you’re lucky numbers are 7 and 11 lucky, keep in mind that those are really common lottery picks. If you win with these numbers on your ticket, you might end up sharing the prize with a lot of people.           3   Choose a lucky number and stick with it. Some people choose a number sequence that they consider lucky and play it over and over again until it comes up a winner -- if it ever does. For instance, if you’re favorite number sequence is your favorite number, combined with your birthday and your spouse’s lucky number and birthday (3-6-11-9-10-31), then you would play this number religiously every time you play the lottery. Then, you wait for your number to come up a winner. This could be considered making your own luck.         Score 0 / 0    Method 3 Quiz  What significant numbers can you use to play the lottery?     Birthdays  Try again! You can absolutely choose birthdays to play the lottery. Try yours, your children's, and your spouse's. But keep in mind that there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. Pick another answer!    Anniversaries  You're partially right! Anniversaries are popular lucky numbers to play in the lottery. You can use a wedding anniversary or other significant event. But remember that there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. Try another answer...    Addresses  Close! The address for your current or childhood home might be lucky to play in the lottery. You could include the zip code if you need more numbers. Still, there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. There’s a better option out there!    Phone numbers  Almost! Break important phone numbers into single- and double-digit numbers to make your picks! However, there are other significant numbers you can use to play the lottery. There’s a better option out there!    All of the above  Correct! When choosing lucky numbers, birthdays, anniversaries, addresses, and phone numbers are all great options. Get creative, and go with your gut! Read on for another quiz question.              Method  4   Using Random Numbers          1   Find a random number generator.  Random.org has a number generator specifically designed for lottery picks. The advantage of using random draws is that winning lottery numbers are chosen randomly as well. So, it might be a lucky draw.  Choose how many tickets you want. Then, choose the country or state in which you’re playing.  Choose the lottery game that you’re playing such as Powerball, Nebraska-Pick 5, etc. You are able to choose specific games for each state.  Choose how many numbers are available in the draw. For instance, a five sequence number such as 5-10-14-2-6-7. Or, is it a six sequence number like 11-5-3-9-15-24.  Chose the highest number in the sequence. For instance, if any number up to 59 is available to play, the sequence 6-59-30-15-5 is a viable lottery number. The number 60-3-67-3-10-5-1 is not.Then, click pick tickets. The settings and the site will calculate a number for you. [6]            2   Use a random number generator for single numbers. If you still want to have a little control over your numbers, you could use a random number generator to choose individual numbers. For instance, you could choose the parameters such as a number between 1 and 30. Then, let the random number choose. Do that for each number.  You also could follow the steps of the delta method except instead of picking the numbers yourself, you could allow the random number generator to do it. You simply set the parameters for each step of the process. [7]            3   Use "lotto pick" computer generated numbers. Allow the lottery to choose randomly for you. You can request random picks when you purchase your lottery ticket. When the attendant asked you for the numbers, tell him or her that you want the system to choose the numbers for you. With the click of a few buttons, you’ll have your lottery numbers. If you're buying several tickets at one time, this is probably the way to go.         Score 0 / 0    Method 4 Quiz  What information do you need to input into a random number generator?     The jackpot amount.  Nope! The random number generator does not need to know the jackpot amount for the game you're playing. It selects numbers based on the type of game, how many numbers you can select, and the highest number available to play. Guess again!    Which lottery game you are playing.  Absolutely! Examples include Powerball or Pick 3, although the games may vary depending on your state. The random number generator needs this information so it can set parameters such as how many numbers you need to select and what numbers are available for selection. Read on for another quiz question.    The lowest number possible to play.  Not quite! The lowest possible number will always be 1. Instead, you will need to enter the highest number available to play. Click on another answer to find the right one...    The most frequently drawn numbers.  Not exactly! The random number generator does not take frequently drawn number into account. You do not need to enter this information. Choose another answer!                 Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      How can I find the winning numbers for the lottery on a particular date?    wikiHow Contributor   Watch the news on the day it is drawn, or you could search it on your lottery website.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 7  Helpful 35           How do I find my lucky numbers?    wikiHow Contributor   Go with your best gut feeling, use numbers that have always seemed to produce good results, or pick numbers that mean something important to you.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 10  Helpful 42           If my highest lottery number is 90, what should I do?    wikiHow Contributor   Use Analysis Lotto test drive and configure it to 1 - 90.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 18  Helpful 64           How do I play Powerball?    wikiHow Contributor   This article can help you with the process of playing Powerball: How to Play Powerball .   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 10  Helpful 33           What are tomorrow's numbers?    wikiHow Contributor   You can pick whichever numbers you would like. There is no way of knowing ahead of time.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 11  Helpful 30           Are websites like "biggreennumbers.com" good to use?    wikiHow Contributor   No, buy your lottery tickets at a shop. It's way too easy to get scammed out of money online.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 11  Helpful 27           Is it better to pick my own numbers when playing the lottery?    wikiHow Contributor   You have exactly the same chance if a computer chooses them for you as you do choosing them yourself.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 0  Helpful 3             Unanswered Questions        How do I find the winning lottery numbers in my area after choosing mine?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How can I get a winning number in Nigeria Lottos?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How do I choose lottery numbers?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           Where do I send my chosen number?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...           How do I choose lottery numbers and where do I see the results?   Answer this question  Flag as...  Flag as...         Show more unanswered questions    Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Remember, the lottery is completely random and there's no perfect way to pick numbers. If there were, it wouldn't be fun!         Edit Related wikiHows       How to Spend Lottery Winnings      How to Calculate Lotto Odds      How to Buy a Lottery Ticket      How to Be a Successful Gambler      How to Play Powerball      How to Win More Scratch Offs      How to Increase Your Chances of Winning a Lottery      How to Win the Mega Millions      How to Win Keno            Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.msn.com/en-gb/money/shoppingandvouchers/8-ways-you-can-improve-your-chances-of-winning-the-lottery/ar-AAbHrZw    ↑  http://www.use4.com/stepbystep.html    ↑  http://www.use4.com/stepbystep.html    ↑  https://www.random.org/quick-pick/    ↑  http://www.mathgoodies.com/calculators/random_no_custom.html      Show more... (4)        Made Recently         Uploaded 3 years ago       Uploaded 3 years ago      Loading...  Add a photo Upload error         Awesome picture! Tell us more about it? Click here to share your story.             Article Info   Categories: Lotteries and Scratchcard Games  In other languages:  Français: choisir ses numéros au loto , Español: escoger números para la lotería , Deutsch: Lottozahlen tippen , Português: Escolher Números na Loteria    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 1,523,104 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .    About This Article                         92 votes - 67%  Click a star to vote    67% of people told us that this article helped them.     Co-authors: 30    Updated:   Views: 1,523,104          Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Spend Lottery Winnings How to Calculate Lotto Odds How to Buy a Lottery Ticket How to Be a Successful Gambler       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                258  . .               Michigan Classic 47 Lotto Tips  Updated 11/16/17   About Michigan Classic 47 Lotto Game   Michigan Classic 47 6/47 started on May 18, 2005. 
       Classic 47 is a game in which six numbers are drawn from 1 to 47. 
       Drawings are held twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday.
       Jackpots start at $1 million and increases by $100,000 each drawing that is not won.  The odds of winning the Classic 47 jackpot are one in 10,737,573.
       Compare that to the jackpot odds of one in 30,821,472 of winning Lucky for Life ,
       or one in 292 million of winning the Powerball lottery or one in 302,575,350 of winning the Mega Millions game ! 
       However, there are better games in Michigan to play:
       Odds of one in 2,546,203 of winning Michigan Keno ;
       or odds of only one in 575,757 of winning the Michigan Fantasy5 .    Pick Better Lotto Numbers   Strategy Book  Below are free lotto tips to help you play the game smarter and win the lottery, taken from Gail Howard's lotto book, Lottery Master Guide . This is just a sample, and the book
       explains all of Smart Luck's successful methods of number selection in great detail with examples of patterns shown throughout. It is a great starting place for any lotto player.  ADD TO CART    Strategy Software  Advantage Gold software makes all the charts for this game, to automate the process of choosing the best numbers to play.  ADD TO CART   Lottery Strategies to Help You Win Michigan Classic 47  Lottery numbers are randomly drawn. But randomly drawn numbers form patterns
       that can be tracked and used to our advantage. Having carefully analyzed all the 
       drawings in past lotto results of more than 200 different lotto games worldwide, with
       histories going back as far as 1955, we have verified the following incredibly
       simple rule:  That which is MOST POSSIBLE happens MOST OFTEN. That which is LEAST POSSIBLE happens LEAST OFTEN.   The key to Smart Luck's successful lotto number selection methods is playing
       the probabilities. If you play a pattern that occurs only five
       percent of the time, you can expect that pattern to lose 95
       percent of the time, giving you no chance to win 95 percent of
       the time. So, don't buck the probabilities.  How to WIN Michigan Classic 47 Lotto  ODD-EVEN LOTTO NUMBER TIPS  When you select your Classic 47 Lotto numbers, try to have a relatively even mix of odd and
       even numbers. All odd numbers or all even numbers are rarely drawn, occurring less than
       one percent of the time. The best mix is to have 2/4, 4/2 or 3/3, which means two 
       odd and four even, or four odd and two even, or three odd and three even. One of 
       these three patterns will occur in 81 percent of the drawings.  HIGH-LOW LOTTO NUMBER TIPS  Winning numbers are usually spread across the entire number field . If we take a
       number field and cut it in half, we have the low half and the high half. In a
       47-number game, numbers 1 to 24 would be in the low half, and numbers 25 to 47
       would be in the high half. All high numbers or all low numbers are rarely drawn, occurring
       only one percent of the time. The best mix is to have 2/4, 4/2 or 3/3, which means 
       two high and four low, or four high and two low, or three high and three low. 
       Winning number groups with these three patterns occur in 81 percent of all drawings.  LOTTERY NUMBER GROUP STRATEGIES  Look at a list of past winning numbers for Michigan Classic Lotto, and you'll see,
       more often than not, that one or more of the number groups is not represented. For
       example, in the combination 5-14-17-32-38-47, there are no 20's. Tracking and studying
       Number Groups can help you decide which group to omit and which group to give extra
       heavy play.  LOTTERY GAMES SKIPPED STRATEGIES  List the number of games skipped (games out) since the last hit (win) for each of
       the winning numbers during the last five games. Then mark the number of times each
       skip occurred. If any skip from 0 to 5 did not occur, play the Lotto numbers that
       are out that many games. ( Help working with lotto games skipped .)  LOTTO NUMBER SUM ADVICE - PLAY A BALANCED GAME ®  After you choose six numbers you want to play, add them together and make sure
       that the sum of the six numbers adds up to somewhere between 115 and 185. Sums that
       fall within that range will account for over 70 percent of all lottery jackpots won.  REPEAT HITS LOTTERY TIPS  In Michigan Classic 47 6/47, on average, one lottery number will be a repeat hit from the 
       last drawing 81 percent of the time.  HOT NUMBER LOTTERY SECRETS  Numbers that have been out (losers) for five games or less account for about 
       half of the winning numbers drawn. Losing numbers that have been out 
       ten games or less account for 77 percent of all the winning numbers . This tells 
       us that hot numbers are more likely to hit, but don't forget to include at 
       least one long shot in your group of 6.  COLD NUMBER LOTTERY SECRETS  It is difficult to know when a cold number will end a long losing streak. If you play a
       number every drawing because you think it is due , you could be chasing it
       for many months. (Number 45 in New York Lotto sat out 100 drawings before it
       finally hit.) Although, when a number has been out for 70 games or so, it might be
       worth chasing.  Lottery Pools and Lottery Syndicates  POOL YOUR WAY TO LOTTO RICHES  Several of the 107 Lotto jackpots won with Smart Luck lottery systems were won by groups of people
       who pooled their money. Sharing the ticket cost with others stretches your Lotto
       budget. By playing with a group, you can afford to buy more lottery
       tickets—and play larger wheeling systems—than you could (or should) by
       yourself. Draw up an agreement and have the members of your pool sign it.  How to Get Lucky in Lotto  CASH IN ON THE LUCK OF OTHERS  When you form a Lotto pool, your group is also pooling its aggregate luck. A
       jackpot could happen because of the luck just one member brings to your pool.
       Select your partners carefully. Share your luck with winners, not losers. Avoid
       negative people. Not only are they unlucky, but they dampen enthusiasm and drain
       energy from others. You want to enhance your own luck, not dilute its strength. One
       quick way to tell winners from losers is simply to ask them: "Do you think you
       are a lucky person?" Many people quickly admit, "I'm unlucky. I never win
       anything." They won't bring good luck to your group either.  CASH IN ON A POSITIVE ATTITUDE  No one should play games of chance out of desperation because they need the
       winnings. The needy have a greater fear of losing the hard-earned money they gamble
       with. It is just one of life's dirty tricks that the very fear of losing blocks the
       winning forces. Thoughts are charged with energy, especially when triggered by
       emotion. Fear attracts exactly that which one fears. A strong desire for a goal
       that is charged with positive energy, attracts a positive response, especially when
       every effort is made to attain that goal.  Lotto Wheels to help you win   After you choose the best numbers with number strategies, you can improve your odds of winning larger prizes by using lotto wheeling systems.
       It's simple, easy as A-B-C to wheel pick-6 lotto numbers using the 
       Balanced Wheels in the Wheel Six Gold lottery software .
       You get a minimum win guarantee with every wheel!  ADD TO CART   Lottery Wheels  USE BALANCED WHEEL ® SYSTEMS  Balanced Wheel ® Systems allow you to 
       bet a large group of numbers (more than 6), play scientific combinations of that group 
       of numbers, and get a specific minimum win guarantee . Balanced Wheels ® force all the 
       winning numbers that are in your group to come together to give you at least one prize 
       if some or all of the winning numbers are in your chosen group.  It's true that the more numbers you wheel, the easier it is to trap the winning
       numbers in your chosen group. But to get the most leverage for your money, the optimum
       number of numbers to wheel is not more than four or five numbers over HALF the numbers
       in your game. In Michigan Classic Lotto, choose less than 28 numbers to wheel.
       Otherwise, you'll be spending MORE money chasing a SMALLER guaranteed prize. 
       You benefit more by wheeling a carefully selected group of lotto numbers.  THE BEST WAY TO WHEEL ALL THE LOTTO NUMBERS IN YOUR GAME  Any one wheeling
       system that covers ALL the numbers in the game is too spread out, making the win
       guarantee not worth the wager. There are smart ways to wheel all the numbers in
       the game by using Trap-by-Overlap and other wheeling strategies covered on pages
       137 to 142 in the Lottery Master Guide.   Most of Smart Luck's lottery winners used a Balanced Wheel ® in addition to her Smart Luck ® number selection methods. You can use a FREE  
       interactive Balanced Wheeling System that won
       multiple jackpots. Read about our lottery winners , too. And
       when you win a jackpot with Smart Luck lotto systems, tell us about it so you can be added to Gail Howard's
       growing list of winners. If you don't want your name publicized, we will honor
       that.  Save Money by Knowing Lotto Numbers to Avoid  Lotto players who select their lottery numbers thoughtlessly or foolishly are destined to lose even before the drawing takes place. 
       By knowing which number combinations and patterns to avoid, you'll have an advantage over such players—and save money, too.  AVOID NUMBER COMBINATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN DRAWN BEFORE  Many players like to bet the numbers that have won someone else a big jackpot, and
       by doing so, they are almost guaranteed NOT to win one themselves. In Michigan Classic 47,
       with three drawings a week, a set of 6 numbers has a chance of being drawn once
       every 89,639 years!!! This should also answer the question we are so often asked,
       "Shouldn't I keep playing the same set of numbers every week because they are due
       to hit sometime?"  AVOID BETTING SIX CONSECUTIVE LOTTO NUMBERS  Six consecutive numbers have never been drawn in any state or international lotto game. 
       Smart Luck has all the drawing results for more than 190 state and international lottery games, going back more than fifty years! 
       Even five consecutive numbers is a very rare occurrence that, in most Lotto games, has never happened once.  AVOID BETTING ONE LOTTO NUMBER GROUP  Never choose all six numbers from one number group, such as all single digits, or
       all teens, or all 20's, etc. All six winning numbers drawn from one group is
       highly unlikely.  AVOID THE LOTTO COMBINATION 1-2-3-4-5-6  The most popular set of numbers most often played is: 1-2-3-4-5-6. Thousands of
       tickets are bought with this combination every drawing. The selection
       is too far out of balance to come up in a random drawing.  AVOID PATTERN BETTING  Pattern betting is an even more popular method of marking bet slips. Patterns of
       numbers marked in a row to make a straight line, either across the bet slip
       vertically or diagonally get heavy play—which means sharing the prize with
       others if the numbers are drawn as winners. Other designs such as patterns of
       initials or numbers or crosses also get heavy play.  AVOID NUMBER MULTIPLES  Other popular combinations that get heavy play are the number multiples, especially
       5-10-15-20-25-30 and 7-14-21-28-35-42.  AVOID ALL SAME LAST DIGITS  Many people like to play same last digits, such as 3-13-23-33-43, or all digits that
       end in seven, or some other favorite lucky lottery number. Even four same last digits occur
       in less than two-tenths of one percent of all drawings. Winning sets of numbers with 
       three last digits the same occur in less than 3 percent of all drawings. Winning sets 
       of numbers with no more than one repeated last digit represent nearly 90 percent of all
       drawings.  AVOID LOW NUMBER COMBINATIONS  The majority of Lotto players like to play the calendar numbers, such as birth
       dates and anniversaries—and their children's ages. This means that the most
       heavily played numbers are 1 through 31. Michigan Classic 47 has 47 numbers. If you play
       only the calendar numbers, you might be sharing your jackpot with dozens of other
       winners. It's not to say that you shouldn't play your personal numbers if you feel these lucky numbers are good to play. But we recommend that you include a couple of high
       numbers so that just in case your numbers do hit, you win a prize that's worth
       something.  NIX LOTTO QUICK PICKS  Quick Picks are used by lazy people who want to be in the action without putting
       any effort into winning. When you read articles about jackpot winners, it appears
       as though they all used either Quick Picks, birth dates, or their children's ages.
       The vast majority of people do play that way. If the majority of tickets sold are
       Quick Picks, then it makes sense that the majority of jackpots won should be won
       with Quick Picks. However, when you see the actual statistics, as we did, you'll find that you have
       a better chance of winning by picking numbers randomly out of a hat than by using
       Quick Picks.  In Lotto, the Trend is Your Friend  The shortest, easiest way to search for Lotto numbers that have
       the greatest probability of winning is to track the trends. Smart Luck strategies show you how to understand and use historical data.
       Advantage Gold is the best lotto strategy software which has a vast assortment of charts and reports
       that allow you to examine your lotto numbers in an infinite variety of ways. 
       Advantage Gold teaches you to understand and use historical data.  Win with Lotto Software and Books   See all Smart Luck lottery software and lotto books or the full lottery product guide and list of best Michigan lottery software and books to use for Michigan Classic.
       Also see the references on the right side of this page: products to use for Michigan Classic Lotto, 
       many articles for more info on understanding lottery strategy and the concepts of lotto wheeling, 
       links to our free wheels for Michigan Classic Lotto, and more!  Good Luck with Smart Luck ® .   Lottery Software   Find out more about Lottery Software    Lottery Books   Find out more about Lottery Books   SHOP NOW      Michigan Classic Lotto Products   Advantage Gold™ Number Selection Lotto Software  More Info  ADD TO CART    Lottery Master Guide Lottery Strategy Book  More Info  ADD TO CART    Wheel Six Gold™ Balanced Lotto Wheel ® Software for Pick-6 and Pick-7 Games More Info  ADD TO CART    Lotto How to Wheel a Fortune Balanced Wheel ® System Book for Pick-6 and Pick-7 Games More Info  ADD TO CART    Filtering Full Wheel Generator™ Full Wheeling Software for Pick-3 to Pick-10 Games More Info  ADD TO CART   More Help for Which Products to Buy for Michigan Classic Lotto :   Best Lottery Software and Books for Michigan  Lottery Products Guide Explains Overview of Types of Books and Software     Lottery Advantage Charts  For a set of our number selection strategy charts printed just for Michigan Classic Lotto, order the Lottery Advantage Charts.  More Info  ADD TO CART    Michigan Lottery  Official Site:   Michigan State Lottery   Newest Lotto Drawings:   Download Michigan Lottery Results     MI Lotto Strategy  Using Lottery Strategies to Pick Winning Numbers for Michigan Classic Lotto   3 Ways to Win the Lotto  Playing a Balanced Game  Using the Most Probable Range of Sums to Your Avantage  FAQ: How do I pick my best numbers?     MI Lotto Wheeling  Using Wheels to Improve Your Odds of Winning Michigan Classic Lotto   What is lotto wheeling  Why lottery Balanced Wheels ® win jackpots  FAQ: What is a minimum win guarantee?  FAQ: What's better: Wheel Gold or FWGP/FFWG?     How do you win a lotto?  Free Tips for Other Michigan Lottery Games:   Michigan Fantasy 5 Lottery Strategies  Michigan Keno Lottery Strategies  Michigan Powerball Lottery Strategies  Michigan Mega Millions Lottery Strategies  Michigan Lucky for Life Lottery Strategies     Lotto Wheels for Free  Discover how lottery wheels can improve your odds of winning! Try out a free winning wheel for Michigan Classic 47 Lotto:   FREE Interactive Lottery Wheeling System 608          ORDER (M-F 8am-5pm EST): 1-727-441-8906 TECH SUPPORT (M-F 1pm-5pm EST): 1-727-441-8714              Lottery Winning Systems & Strategies   CART  Turn a game of luck into a game of skill!™          Menu   Home  About   About Smart Luck  Mission Statement  Media Appearances  Articles    Winners   Proof of Winners  Winners' Testimonials  Winners' News Articles    Products   Lottery Books  Lottery Software  Software Upgrades    Purchase   View Shopping Cart  Mail-In Order Form  Which Products to Order  Shipping and Payments  Media Options  Return Policy  Privacy Policy    Free Tips   Basic Info - Methods to Win  Balanced Game  70% Best Lotto Sums  Odds of Winning  Lotto Wheels Explained  Balanced Lotto Wheels  Free Lotto Wheels  Free Lotto Tips  Free Software Demos    Support   FAQ  Lottery Updater  SlhEdit Program  Lotto Result Files  Software Downloads  Lotto Terms Glossary  Comments and Reviews  Contact Smart Luck    News  Links   Fast Links  USA Lotteries  International Lotteries             This site and all contents are protected under international copyright laws. © Smartluck, Inc. 2016 . All rights reserved worldwide.    Sitemap Terms and Conditions                      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Tired of ads?       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Michigan Classic Lotto 47 Winning System -- How to Win the Lottery                 SiouxieCrewszbi              Loading...        Unsubscribe from SiouxieCrewszbi?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 157             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   3,739 views         5   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     6    2   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     3            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Mar 13, 2011 http://www.LottoBookSystem.com How to Win The Lottery - Lotto Blackbook Winning Secrets The only guarantee that you might win the lottery no matter where you are is first of all to have a lottery ticket. If you have a ticket than your chances of winning the lottery is one in god knows how many millions. Now, if you have two or more tickets, even hundreds of them, the chances are pretty much the same because the odds of winning a lottery with millions of players are very slim. This is because 99.9 percent of the players base their game on luck. Mr. Larry Blair, a math professor, discovered a lottery system that anyone can use it in order to win the lottery. He won the lottery few times with his method and he wasn't even thinking of sharing his secret with the others but because of the media his identity was revealed and he got threats from all over. One day he even got shot for this and he decided to write a book about it and share it with the rest of the world. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com After this the question is not How to Win the Lottery but When to Win the Lottery. He tried to print a hard copy of the book called The Lotto Blackbook but all the publishers refused because they knew this system really works so he decided to publish it in an electronic form. But there is still a catch and that is only 1000 copies are available for download. You can check here how may copies are left. This book is by any means a winner. If you get a hold of this book and carefully read it and than apply the techniques presented there you are guaranteed to win the lottery. To put his money where his mouth is Mr. Blair guarantees you that if you don't win the lottery in few weeks he will refund your fund if it didn't work for you. That is a good investment for few weeks. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com     Category   Howto & Style     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Seven-Time Lottery Winner Offers Tips to Powerball Winner | ABC News  - Duration: 5:33.  ABC News  2,020,219 views     5:33               Secrets The Lottery Doesn't Want You To Know  - Duration: 7:05.  Grunge  3,129,158 views     7:05      Ways to Win the Lottery - Lottery Winning Systems - Tips from Richard Lustig  - Duration: 3:40.  Gergely Oszkar  331,111 views     3:40      Win the 6 digit lottery    YouTube  - Duration: 3:22.  6thsensetv  1,337,045 views     3:22      Double Lottery Winner Secret  - Duration: 2:02.  LotteryNews  546,970 views     2:02      7-Time Lotto Winner Offers Powerball Tips: Powerball Jackpot Hits $425 Million  - Duration: 2:36.  ABC News  896,944 views     2:36      How To WIN THE LOTTERY - Guaranteed!  - Duration: 4:24.  Jon  704,522 views     4:24      Powerball Winner Paul White Hilarious Press Conference After Winning $149 million Prize [Full]  - Duration: 9:06.  martysoffice  623,651 views     9:06      What Happens When You Win The Lottery?  - Duration: 3:23.  NowThis World  1,951,865 views     3:23      BUYING ALL THE LOTTERY TICKETS IN THE LOTTERY MACHINE!!!!  - Duration: 12:09.  Claw Kicker  3,923,519 views     12:09      I Have Won The Lottery! - Lottery Success - Super Charged Affirmations  - Duration: 30:30.  Rockstar Affirmations  662,938 views     30:30      Fix The Machine - How To Win The Lottery  - Duration: 2:47.  Derren Brown  111,584 views     2:47      New Emerald 10'S California Lottery Scratcher $10 Card - $$ Symbols  - Duration: 2:44.  Scratcher Heaven  32,643 views     2:44      Michigan Lottery | Kelsey Zachow, Mega Millions Winner  - Duration: 1:30.  Constant Motion Productions  4,341 views     1:30      How to win the LotteryðŸ’°How to win Lotto every week! Lotto Winners Law of Attraction works!  - Duration: 4:35.  Dreaming The Life, Living The Dream  478,719 views     4:35      Couple Claims $202.1 Million Powerball Jackpot!  - Duration: 2:54.  Iowa Lottery  136,584 views     2:54      How To Play Lotto 47  - Duration: 2:14.  MichiganLottery  5,081 views     2:14      Manistique man claims Lotto 47 winnings  - Duration: 0:49.  TV6 & FOX UP  1,222 views     0:49      $2M Michigan Lottery Winner Still Collects Food Stamps & Disability  - Duration: 3:11.  RippDemUp TV  34,717 views     3:11      "Cash For Life" Michigan Lottery Scratch Off Ticket!  - Duration: 2:19.  JJLawnicki93  12,701 views     2:19     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                 Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Tired of ads?       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Michigan Classic Lotto 47 Winning System -- How to Win the Lottery                 SiouxieCrewszbi              Loading...        Unsubscribe from SiouxieCrewszbi?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 157             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   3,739 views         5   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     6    2   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     3            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Mar 13, 2011 http://www.LottoBookSystem.com How to Win The Lottery - Lotto Blackbook Winning Secrets The only guarantee that you might win the lottery no matter where you are is first of all to have a lottery ticket. If you have a ticket than your chances of winning the lottery is one in god knows how many millions. Now, if you have two or more tickets, even hundreds of them, the chances are pretty much the same because the odds of winning a lottery with millions of players are very slim. This is because 99.9 percent of the players base their game on luck. Mr. Larry Blair, a math professor, discovered a lottery system that anyone can use it in order to win the lottery. He won the lottery few times with his method and he wasn't even thinking of sharing his secret with the others but because of the media his identity was revealed and he got threats from all over. One day he even got shot for this and he decided to write a book about it and share it with the rest of the world. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com After this the question is not How to Win the Lottery but When to Win the Lottery. He tried to print a hard copy of the book called The Lotto Blackbook but all the publishers refused because they knew this system really works so he decided to publish it in an electronic form. But there is still a catch and that is only 1000 copies are available for download. You can check here how may copies are left. This book is by any means a winner. If you get a hold of this book and carefully read it and than apply the techniques presented there you are guaranteed to win the lottery. To put his money where his mouth is Mr. Blair guarantees you that if you don't win the lottery in few weeks he will refund your fund if it didn't work for you. That is a good investment for few weeks. http://www.LottoBookSystem.com     Category   Howto & Style     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Seven-Time Lottery Winner Offers Tips to Powerball Winner | ABC News  - Duration: 5:33.  ABC News  2,020,219 views     5:33               Secrets The Lottery Doesn't Want You To Know  - Duration: 7:05.  Grunge  3,129,158 views     7:05      Ways to Win the Lottery - Lottery Winning Systems - Tips from Richard Lustig  - Duration: 3:40.  Gergely Oszkar  331,111 views     3:40      Win the 6 digit lottery    YouTube  - Duration: 3:22.  6thsensetv  1,337,045 views     3:22      Double Lottery Winner Secret  - Duration: 2:02.  LotteryNews  546,970 views     2:02      7-Time Lotto Winner Offers Powerball Tips: Powerball Jackpot Hits $425 Million  - Duration: 2:36.  ABC News  896,944 views     2:36      How To WIN THE LOTTERY - Guaranteed!  - Duration: 4:24.  Jon  704,522 views     4:24      Buzz: lucky lottery winner  - Duration: 4:16.  WPRI  8,738 views     4:16      Powerball Winner Paul White Hilarious Press Conference After Winning $149 million Prize [Full]  - Duration: 9:06.  martysoffice  623,651 views     9:06      BUYING ALL THE LOTTERY TICKETS IN THE LOTTERY MACHINE!!!!  - Duration: 12:09.  Claw Kicker  3,923,519 views     12:09      What Happens When You Win The Lottery?  - Duration: 3:23.  NowThis World  1,951,865 views     3:23      I Have Won The Lottery! - Lottery Success - Super Charged Affirmations  - Duration: 30:30.  Rockstar Affirmations  662,938 views     30:30      Fix The Machine - How To Win The Lottery  - Duration: 2:47.  Derren Brown  111,584 views     2:47      New Emerald 10'S California Lottery Scratcher $10 Card - $$ Symbols  - Duration: 2:44.  Scratcher Heaven  32,643 views     2:44      Michigan Lottery | Kelsey Zachow, Mega Millions Winner  - Duration: 1:30.  Constant Motion Productions  4,341 views     1:30      Couple Claims $202.1 Million Powerball Jackpot!  - Duration: 2:54.  Iowa Lottery  136,584 views     2:54      How to win the LotteryðŸ’°How to win Lotto every week! Lotto Winners Law of Attraction works!  - Duration: 4:35.  Dreaming The Life, Living The Dream  478,719 views     4:35      How To Play Lotto 47  - Duration: 2:14.  MichiganLottery  5,081 views     2:14      The Lotto Black Book System Will Show You How to Win the Lottery Guaranteed  - Duration: 2:16.  SiouxieCrewszbi  3,028 views     2:16      Manistique man claims Lotto 47 winnings  - Duration: 0:49.  TV6 & FOX UP  1,222 views     0:49     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                   Lottery mathematics   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search         This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.  (April 2011)  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message )     Lottery mathematics is used to calculate probabilities in a lottery game.     Contents    1  Choosing 6 from 49  2  Odds of getting other possibilities in choosing 6 from 49  3  Pick8-32 odds and calculations  4  Powerballs And Bonus Balls  5  Minimum number of tickets for a match  6  References  7  External links     Choosing 6 from 49 [ edit ]  In a typical 6/49 game, each player chooses six non-duplicate numbers from a range of 1-49. If the six numbers on a ticket match the numbers drawn by the lottery, the ticket holder is a jackpot winner—regardless of the order of the numbers. The probability of this happening is 1 in 13,983,816.  The chance of winning can be demonstrated as follows : The first number drawn has a 1 in 49 chance of matching . When the draw comes to the second number, there are now only 48 balls left in the bag (because the balls already drawn are not returned to the bag) so there is now a 1 in 48 chance of predicting this number.  Thus for each of the 49 ways of choosing the first number there are 48 different ways of choosing the second. This means that the probability of correctly predicting 2 numbers drawn from 49 in the correct order is calculated as 1 in 49 × 48. On drawing the third number there are only 47 ways of choosing the number; but of course we could have arrived at this point in any of 49 × 48 ways, so the chances of correctly predicting 3 numbers drawn from 49, again in the correct order, is 1 in 49 × 48 × 47. This continues until the sixth number has been drawn, giving the final calculation, 49 × 48 × 47 × 46 × 45 × 44, which can also be written as        49  !    (  49  −  6  )  !       {\displaystyle {49! \over (49-6)!}}   or 49 factorial divided by 43 factorial. This works out to 10,068,347,520, which is much bigger than the ~14 million stated above.  However; the order of the 6 numbers is not significant. That is, if a ticket has the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, it wins as long as all the numbers 1 through 6 are drawn, no matter what order they come out in. Accordingly, given any set of 6 numbers, there are 6 × 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 6 ! or 720 orders in which they could be drawn. Dividing 10,068,347,520 by 720 gives 13,983,816, also written as        49  !    6  !  ∗  (  49  −  6  )  !       {\displaystyle {49! \over 6!*(49-6)!}}   , or more generally as          (    n  k    )     =     n  !    k  !  (  n  −  k  )  !       {\displaystyle {n \choose k}={n! \over k!(n-k)!}}   , where n is the number of alternatives and k is the number of choices.   This function is called the combination function; in Microsoft Excel , this function is implemented as COMBIN( n , k ). For example, COMBIN(49, 6) (the calculation shown above), would return 13,983,816. For the rest of this article, we will use the notation        (    n  k    )       {\displaystyle {n \choose k}}   . "Combination" means the group of numbers selected, irrespective of the order in which they are drawn.  An alternative method of calculating the odds is to note that the probability of the first ball corresponding to one of the six chosen is 6/49; the probability of the second ball corresponding to one of the remaining five chosen is 5/48; and so on. This yields a final formula of          (    n  k    )     =     (    49  6    )     =    49  6    ∗    48  5    ∗    47  4    ∗    46  3    ∗    45  2    ∗    44  1      {\displaystyle {n \choose k}={49 \choose 6}={49 \over 6}*{48 \over 5}*{47 \over 4}*{46 \over 3}*{45 \over 2}*{44 \over 1}}     The range of possible combinations for a given lottery can be referred to as the "number space". "Coverage" is the percentage of a lottery's number space that is in play for a given drawing.  Odds of getting other possibilities in choosing 6 from 49 [ edit ]  One must divide the number of combinations producing the given result by the total number of possible combinations (for example,        (    49  6    )     =  13  ,  983  ,  816    {\displaystyle {49 \choose 6}=13,983,816}   ). The numerator equates to the number of ways to select the winning numbers multiplied by the number of ways to select the losing numbers.  For a score of n (for example, if 3 choices match three of the 6 balls drawn, then n = 3),        (    6  n    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose n}}   describes the odds of selecting n winning numbers from the 6 winning numbers. This means that there are 6 - n losing numbers, which are chosen from the 43 losing numbers in        (    43   6  −  n     )       {\displaystyle {43 \choose 6-n}}   ways. The total number of combinations giving that result is, as stated above, the first number multiplied by the second. The expression is therefore         (    6  n    )        (    43   6  −  n     )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose n}{43 \choose 6-n} \over {49 \choose 6}}   .  This can be written in a general form for all lotteries as:         (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}   , where     N    {\displaystyle N}   is the number of balls in lottery,     K    {\displaystyle K}   is the number of balls in a single ticket, and     B    {\displaystyle B}   is the number of matching balls for a winning ticket.  The generalisation of this formula is called the hypergeometric distribution .  This gives the following results:    Score  Calculation  Exact Probability  Approximate Decimal Probability  Approximate 1/Probability    0          (    6  0    )        (    43  6    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 0}{43 \choose 6} \over {49 \choose 6}}    435,461/998,844  0.436  2.2938    1          (    6  1    )        (    43  5    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 1}{43 \choose 5} \over {49 \choose 6}}    68,757/166,474  0.413  2.4212    2          (    6  2    )        (    43  4    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 2}{43 \choose 4} \over {49 \choose 6}}    44,075/332,948  0.132  7.5541    3          (    6  3    )        (    43  3    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 3}{43 \choose 3} \over {49 \choose 6}}    8,815/499,422  0.0177  56.66    4          (    6  4    )        (    43  2    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 4}{43 \choose 2} \over {49 \choose 6}}    645/665,896  0.000969  1,032.4    5          (    6  5    )        (    43  1    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{43 \choose 1} \over {49 \choose 6}}    43/2,330,636  0.0000184  54,200.8    6          (    6  6    )        (    43  0    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 6}{43 \choose 0} \over {49 \choose 6}}    1/13,983,816  0.0000000715  13,983,816    When a bonus number is included, the adjusted odds are: [1]    Score  Calculation  Exact Probability  Approximate Decimal Probability  Approximate 1/Probability    5, bonus not won          (    6  5    )        (     (  43  −  1  )   1    )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{(43-1) \choose 1} \over {49 \choose 6}}     0.0000180208  55,491.33    5, bonus won          (    6  5    )        (     (  43  −  1  )    (  1  −  1  )     )         (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{(43-1) \choose (1-1)} \over {49 \choose 6}}     0.0000004291  2,330,636    Pick8-32 odds and calculations [ edit ]  The Pick8-32 Lottery game by Trillion Coins [2] implements a lotto game ticket where 8 numbers from 01 to 32 are selected in any order and can be repeated. The odds of a play ticket matching all 8 numbers is simple to calculate and is illustrated by the following math.         8  32    ∗    7  32    ∗    6  32    ∗    5  32    ∗    4  32    ∗    3  32    ∗    2  32    ∗    1  32    =    40320  1099511627776      {\displaystyle {8 \over 32}*{7 \over 32}*{6 \over 32}*{5 \over 32}*{4 \over 32}*{3 \over 32}*{2 \over 32}*{1 \over 32}={40320 \over 1099511627776}}     Which means there is a 1 in 27,269,633 chance of matching all 8 numbers. The Trillion Coins lottery is a pay-out-on-every-drawing lotto game. The odds are dependent on the total number of tickets that are played. The player who matches the most of the picked numbers wins.  Powerballs And Bonus Balls [ edit ]  Many lotteries have a powerball (or "bonus ball"). If the powerball is drawn from a pool of numbers different from the main lottery, the odds are multiplied by the number of powerballs. For example, in the 6 from 49 lottery, given 10 powerball numbers, then the odds of getting a score of 3 and the powerball would be 1 in 56.66 × 10, or 566.6 (the probability would be divided by 10, to give an exact value of 8815/4994220). Another example of such a game is Mega Millions , albeit with different jackpot odds.  Where more than 1 powerball is drawn from a separate pool of balls to the main lottery (for example, in the EuroMillions game), the odds of the different possible powerball matching scores are calculated using the method shown in the " other scores " section above (in other words, the powerballs are like a mini-lottery in their own right), and then multiplied by the odds of achieving the required main-lottery score.  If the powerball is drawn from the same pool of numbers as the main lottery, then, for a given target score, the number of winning combinations includes the powerball. For games based on the Canadian lottery (such as the lottery of the United Kingdom ), after the 6 main balls are drawn, an extra ball is drawn from the same pool of balls, and this becomes the powerball (or "bonus ball"). An extra prize is given for matching 5 balls and the bonus ball. As described in the " other scores " section above, the number of ways one can obtain a score of 5 from a single ticket is        (    6  5    )        (    43  1    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 5}{43 \choose 1}}   or 258. Since the number of remaining balls is 43, and the ticket has 1 unmatched number remaining, 1/43 of these 258 combinations will match the next ball drawn (the powerball), leaving 258/43 = 6 ways of achieving it. Therefore, the odds of getting a score of 5 and the powerball are       6       (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {6} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 1 in 2,330,636.  Of the 258 combinations that match 5 of the main 6 balls, in 42/43 of them the remaining number will not match the powerball, giving odds of       258  ⋅     42    43          (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {258\cdot {{42} \over {43}}} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 3/166,474 (approximately 55,491.33) for obtaining a score of 5 without matching the powerball.  Using the same principle, the odds of getting a score of 2 and the powerball are        (    6  2    )        (    43  4    )       {\displaystyle {6 \choose 2}{43 \choose 4}}   = 1,851,150 for the score of 2 multiplied by the probability of one of the remaining four numbers matching the bonus ball, which is 4/43. Since 1,851,150 × (4/43) = 172,200, the probability of obtaining the score of 2 and the bonus ball is       172  ,  200       (    49  6    )       {\displaystyle {172,200} \over {49 \choose 6}}   = 1025/83237. This gives approximate decimal odds of 1 in 81.2.  The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with one bonus ball from the     N    {\displaystyle N}   pool of balls is:         K  −  B    N  −  K        (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {K-B \over N-K}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with zero bonus ball from the     N    {\displaystyle N}   pool of balls is:         N  −  K  −  K  +  B    N  −  K        (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {N-K-K+B \over N-K}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with one bonus ball from a separate pool of     P    {\displaystyle P}   balls is:        1  P       (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {1 \over P}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    The general formula for     B    {\displaystyle B}   matching balls in a     N    {\displaystyle N}   choose     K    {\displaystyle K}   lottery with no bonus ball from a separate pool of     P    {\displaystyle P}   balls is:         P  −  1   P       (    K  B    )        (     N  −  K    K  −  B     )         (    N  K    )       {\displaystyle {P-1 \over P}{K \choose B}{N-K \choose K-B} \over {N \choose K}}    Minimum number of tickets for a match [ edit ]  It is a hard (and often open) problem to calculate the minimum number of tickets one needs to purchase to guarantee that at least one of these tickets matches at least 2 numbers. In the 5-from-90 lotto, the minimum number of tickets that can guarantee a ticket with at least 2 matches is 100. [3]  References [ edit ]     ^  Zabrocki, Mike (2003-03-01). "Calculating the Probabilities of Winning Lotto 6/49,Version 3"  (PDF) . Retrieved 2016-08-14 .   ^  "(dead link)" . Archived from the original on 2016-10-21 . Retrieved 2016-08-14 .   ^  Z. Füredi , G. J. Székely , and Z. Zubor (1996). "On the lottery problem". Journal of Combinatorial Designs . Wiley. 4 (1): 5–10. doi : 10.1002/(sici)1520-6610(1996)4:1<5::aid-jcd2>3.3.co;2-w .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link )  [1]     External links [ edit ]   Euler's Analysis of the Genoese Lottery at Convergence  Lottery Mathematics  13,983,816 and the Lottery (James Clewett) – Numberphile, by Brady Haran ( Mathematical Sciences Research Institute )        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lottery_mathematics&oldid=822178750 "  Categories : Lotteries Combinatorics Gambling mathematics Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list Articles needing additional references from April 2011 All articles needing additional references      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    Српски / srpski   Edit links        This page was last edited on 24 January 2018, at 21:18.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                                MLive     Michigan         Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan             Menu          Home   Set Your Edition  Michigan                News   open      Sports   open      High School Sports   open      Weather   open      Business   open      Obituaries/In Memoriam   open      Jobs     Autos     Real Estate   open      Michigan's Best   open      Entertainment   open      Food & Dining   open      Lifestyle   open      Opinion   open      Photos & Videos   open      Become a Member   open      Classifieds     Celebrations     Find&Save   open      Local Businesses     Place an Ad     Follow Us   open     Subscribe         Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Crime    Databases    Education    Environment    Health    Lottery    Obituaries    Politics & Elections    U.S. & World    Weather    Regions   open      News subscriptions   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Grand Rapids-Area Towns    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Lions    Pistons    Red Wings    Tigers    Broncos    Cardinals    Chippewas    Eagles    Lakers    Spartans    Wolverines    Small Colleges    More Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Auto Racing    Boxing    Golf    Outdoors    West Michigan Whitecaps    Great Lakes Loons    Grand Rapids Griffins    Kalamazoo Cobras    Kalamazoo Wings    Muskegon Lumberjacks    Saginaw Spirit    Flint Firebirds    Kalamazoo Growlers    Grand Rapids Drive        Back to Main Menu    Football    Boys Basketball    Girls Basketball    Baseball    Softball    Boys Soccer    Girls Soccer    Wrestling    Girls Volleyball    Boys Ice Hockey    Boys Track & Field    Girls Track & Field    Boys Cross Country    Girls Cross Country    Other Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Boys Golf    Girls Golf    Boys Tennis    Girls Tennis    Boys Swimming    Girls Swimming    Boys Lacrosse    Girls Lacrosse    Competitive Cheer    Boys Bowling    Girls Bowling    Girls Gymnastics    Field Hockey    Boys Water Polo    Girls Water Polo    Boys Skiing    Girls Skiing    Boys Rowing    Girls Rowing    Boys Rugby    Equestrian        Back to Main Menu    Forecasts from Mark Torregrossa    Michigan Weather News    Radar & More        Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Jackson & Lansing    Metro Detroit    Mid-Michigan    West Michigan    More Business   open          Back to Main Menu    Business Resource Center    Michigan Jobs    Press Releases        Back to Main Menu    View current obituaries    Place obituary        Back to Main Menu    Homes for Sale    New Homes    For Rent    Foreclosures    Commercial    Real Estate News    Resources   open          Back to Main Menu    Home Buying    Sell My Home    Rental Living    Home Ideas    Mortgages and Loans    I'm Moving        Back to Main Menu    Flavor    Uniquely Michigan    Places We Love        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Michigan's Best    Event Listings    Post an Event    Movies & Reviews    Television    Music & Reviews    Comics    Celebrities    Puzzles        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Cooking & Recipes    Healthy Eating    Michigan's Best    Beer    Drinks    Wine        Back to Main Menu    Celebrations    Health & Fitness    Home & Garden    Travel        Back to Main Menu    By Region   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Videos    Ann Arbor Photos    Bay City Photos    Detroit Photos    Flint Photos    Grand Rapids Photos    Jackson Photos    Kalamazoo Photos    Lansing Photos    Muskegon Photos    Saginaw Photos        Back to Main Menu    Manage your Subscriptions    My Michigan Membership Benefits    eReplica    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Ann Arbor/Detroit    Jackson/Lansing    Flint    Saginaw    Bay City    Grand Rapids    Muskegon    Kalamazoo/Battle Creek        Back to Main Menu    Visit our Facebook Page    Follow us on Twitter    Visit us on Google Plus        Back to Main Menu  The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News      Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan                   Back to Main Menu   Close   Customize Your Weather   Set Your Location:   Enter City and State or Zip Code     Congratulations!  Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.       AccuWeather.com Quick Look   Change your current location »   View Full Weather Report            Search    Account  Sign In       Close    Sign in to MLive        You are signed in as     Edit  Public Profile  Sign Out           Subscribe        The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News        Michigan  Change Region              Michigan Entertainment     Michigan woman wins $4.5 million in Lotto 47 after playing for years       Posted on October 16, 2015 at  4:36 PM       Edward Pevos        STERLING HEIGHTS, MI - Persistence finally paid off for a Michigan woman. She won $4.5 million playing the Michigan Lottery's Lotto 47 game.  The lucky player from Macomb County near Detroit, who chose to remain anonymous, matched all six numbers drawn Wednesday, October 14, 2015 to win the big prize. She bought her winning ticket at the CVS Pharmacy, located at 43611 Schoenherr Road in Sterling Heights.  "I've been buying Lottery tickets at the CVS for years, and can't believe I finally got a jackpot winner," said the player. "Each day on a break from work, my friend and I would go to the CVS to purchase tickets."  The player realized she was the jackpot winner on Thursday afternoon during her usual trip to CVS to purchase tickets.  "We went to the store on our break like we always do. I asked the clerk to print the winning numbers. When I saw my ticket matched all six numbers I started screaming, crying and celebrating with my friend."  Once they left the CVS, the player called her husband to tell him they had just become millionaires.  "He thought I was kidding. When he realized we had won $4.5 million he was in shock."  The player chose to receive her jackpot prize as a one-time lump sum payment of about $2.9 million rather than an annuity.  With her winnings, the player plans to pay off her family's bills, pay for college for her children, and take a family vacation.  "Winning the jackpot has been absolutely crazy, I think I've been shaking ever since I found out I won. We have three college-aged children, and knowing that we can pay for their education expenses without sinking into debt is such a burden lifted off our shoulders," the player said.  About Lotto 47: Each Lotto 47 play is $1. Players select six numbers from one to 47 for a chance to win a jackpot starting at $1 million and that grows until someone wins it. For an additional $1 per game, players may add EZMatch to their ticket for a chance to win up to $500 instantly. Lotto 47 drawings take place on Wednesday and Saturday at 7:29 p.m. Tickets may be purchased until 7:08 p.m. on the day of the drawing.  Edward Pevos is the Mlive entertainment reporter for Detroit and Southeast Michigan. You can follow him on Twitter @PaparazzoPevos        About Us    MLive Media Group    Our Team    Advertise    Frequently Asked Questions      Contact Us    Jobs at MLive      Subscriptions    Newspaper | Digital Editions | eNewsletters    The Ann Arbor News    The Bay City Times    The Flint Journal    The Grand Rapids Press    Jackson Citizen Patriot    Kalamazoo Gazette    Muskegon Chronicle    The Saginaw News        MLive Sections    News    Business    Sports    High School Sports    Entertainment    Living    Opinion    Obituaries      Jobs    Autos    Real Estate    Apartment Rentals    Classifieds    Local Deals    Local Businesses    Business Resource Center      Your Regional News Pages    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids      Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw      Mobile    Mobile apps | Tablet apps        More on MLive    Photos    Video    Weather    Post a job      Post a free classified ad    Sell your car    Sell/Rent your home    Apartments and Rentals    Sponsor Content      Follow Us    Twitter | Facebook | YouTube        Advance Local  Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy   © 2018 MLive Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group.   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.    Ad Choices                         MLive     Michigan         Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan             Menu          Home   Set Your Edition  Michigan                News   open      Sports   open      High School Sports   open      Weather   open      Business   open      Obituaries/In Memoriam   open      Jobs     Autos     Real Estate   open      Michigan's Best   open      Entertainment   open      Food & Dining   open      Lifestyle   open      Opinion   open      Photos & Videos   open      Become a Member   open      Classifieds     Celebrations     Find&Save   open      Local Businesses     Place an Ad     Follow Us   open     Subscribe         Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Crime    Databases    Education    Environment    Health    Lottery    Obituaries    Politics & Elections    U.S. & World    Weather    Regions   open      News subscriptions   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Grand Rapids-Area Towns    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Lions    Pistons    Red Wings    Tigers    Broncos    Cardinals    Chippewas    Eagles    Lakers    Spartans    Wolverines    Small Colleges    More Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Auto Racing    Boxing    Golf    Outdoors    West Michigan Whitecaps    Great Lakes Loons    Grand Rapids Griffins    Kalamazoo Cobras    Kalamazoo Wings    Muskegon Lumberjacks    Saginaw Spirit    Flint Firebirds    Kalamazoo Growlers    Grand Rapids Drive        Back to Main Menu    Football    Boys Basketball    Girls Basketball    Baseball    Softball    Boys Soccer    Girls Soccer    Wrestling    Girls Volleyball    Boys Ice Hockey    Boys Track & Field    Girls Track & Field    Boys Cross Country    Girls Cross Country    Other Sports   open          Back to Main Menu    Boys Golf    Girls Golf    Boys Tennis    Girls Tennis    Boys Swimming    Girls Swimming    Boys Lacrosse    Girls Lacrosse    Competitive Cheer    Boys Bowling    Girls Bowling    Girls Gymnastics    Field Hockey    Boys Water Polo    Girls Water Polo    Boys Skiing    Girls Skiing    Boys Rowing    Girls Rowing    Boys Rugby    Equestrian        Back to Main Menu    Forecasts from Mark Torregrossa    Michigan Weather News    Radar & More        Back to Main Menu    Automotive    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Jackson & Lansing    Metro Detroit    Mid-Michigan    West Michigan    More Business   open          Back to Main Menu    Business Resource Center    Michigan Jobs    Press Releases        Back to Main Menu    View current obituaries    Place obituary        Back to Main Menu    Homes for Sale    New Homes    For Rent    Foreclosures    Commercial    Real Estate News    Resources   open          Back to Main Menu    Home Buying    Sell My Home    Rental Living    Home Ideas    Mortgages and Loans    I'm Moving        Back to Main Menu    Flavor    Uniquely Michigan    Places We Love        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Michigan's Best    Event Listings    Post an Event    Movies & Reviews    Television    Music & Reviews    Comics    Celebrities    Puzzles        Back to Main Menu    Dining Out    Cooking & Recipes    Healthy Eating    Michigan's Best    Beer    Drinks    Wine        Back to Main Menu    Celebrations    Health & Fitness    Home & Garden    Travel        Back to Main Menu    By Region   open          Back to Main Menu    Statewide    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids    Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw        Back to Main Menu    Videos    Ann Arbor Photos    Bay City Photos    Detroit Photos    Flint Photos    Grand Rapids Photos    Jackson Photos    Kalamazoo Photos    Lansing Photos    Muskegon Photos    Saginaw Photos        Back to Main Menu    Manage your Subscriptions    My Michigan Membership Benefits    eReplica    Newsletters    Our Newspapers    RSS Feeds        Back to Main Menu    Ann Arbor/Detroit    Jackson/Lansing    Flint    Saginaw    Bay City    Grand Rapids    Muskegon    Kalamazoo/Battle Creek        Back to Main Menu    Visit our Facebook Page    Follow us on Twitter    Visit us on Google Plus        Back to Main Menu  The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News      Ann Arbor  Bay City  Detroit  Flint  Grand Rapids  Jackson  Kalamazoo  Lansing  Muskegon  Saginaw  All Michigan                   Back to Main Menu   Close   Customize Your Weather   Set Your Location:   Enter City and State or Zip Code     Congratulations!  Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time.       AccuWeather.com Quick Look   Change your current location »   View Full Weather Report            Search    Account  Sign In       Close    Sign in to MLive        You are signed in as     Edit  Public Profile  Sign Out           Subscribe        The Ann Arbor News  The Bay City Times  The Flint Journal  The Grand Rapids Press  Jackson Citizen Patriot  Kalamazoo Gazette  Muskegon Chronicle  The Saginaw News        Michigan  Change Region                  comments        2-time Michigan lottery winner says Mega Millions $344 million jackpot won't cash out tonight      Joseph Palmarchuk wins lottery twice in two years           18  Gallery: Joseph Palmarchuk wins lottery twice in two years       Print  Email    Jessica Shepherd | jessica_shepherd@mlive.com  By Jessica Shepherd | jessica_shepherd@mlive.com  The Saginaw News   Follow on Twitter  on December 10, 2013 at  3:45 PM, updated December 10, 2013 at  9:01 PM            comments                 "Anybody and everybody has a chance to win it," said Palmarchuk.         SAGINAW, MI — Planning to win the $344 million Mega Millions jackpot tonight? Two-time lottery winner Joe Palmarchuk says don't bet on it. Palmarchuk, a resident of Barryton, 30 miles northwest of Mount Pleasant, is somewhat of an expert on winning lotteries, having won two separate jackpots of more than $1 million each since 2011.  He doesn't have a good feeling for himself — or anyone else — claiming the big prize tonight, Tuesday, Dec. 10.  "The Mega ball - I don't think it's gonna go tonight," Palmarchuk said. Palmarchuk thinks that what is now the fourth-largest Mega Millions jackpot in history will keep climbing until it is the single largest in history. "I think it'll probably hit the $1 billion mark," he said. It hasn't kept Palmarchuk from trying his luck a third time. For tonight's 11 p.m. drawing, Palmarchuk has purchased 20 easy pick tickets. He said he might grab five more easy picks before the numbers are announced tonight. "You can only chase it so much," Palmarchuk said. "If it's gonna happen, it's gonna happen."  If Palmarchuk is correct and no one is left holding a ticket with five correctly chosen numbers for white balls and the single gold Mega ball number, there are still plenty of other prizes available. Related: Michigan man, bankrupt before winning two $1 million jackpots in two years, plans to win again  Anyone who matches just the five white balls will win at least $1 million. If a multiplier was purchased, the ticket is worth $5 million dollars.  Smaller prizes also are available. The odds of winning any dollar amount in a Mega Millions drawing is 1 in 14.7.  "Anybody and everybody has a chance to win it," Palmarchuk said.  That's what led Saginaw County resident Cindy Thiel to buy a Mega Millions ticket, despite the fact that she isn't a big lottery player. "That's the popular draw right now - Mega Millions," said Thiel, owner of First Turn Convenience Store, 2935 S. Graham, in Swan Creek Township.  In March, her store received some lottery-prompted publicity after a Hemlock man won $80,000 in a Fantasy 5 drawing . Since then, Thiel said lottery sales at the store have increased.  "It helps boost the morale around the area, if they think you sold a big ticket," Thiel said.  Thiel said she is happy to see the large number of customers buying Mega Millions tickets, since she hopes to sell another big winner.  "Come out and buy tickets," she said. "We’re looking to sell a big one."  After tonight's big drawing, the spotlight falls on the $122 million Powerball jackpot, with a drawing held Wednesday, Dec. 11. "They’ll play the Mega tonight, then they’ll be back in tomorrow to buy the Powerball," Thiel said.  Palmarchuk said he has already purchased some Powerball tickets at $2 a piece.  "It’s gotten a little more pricey, but your odds are better," he said.                                Joseph and Phillis Palmarchuk talk about their million-dollar jackpot wins  A Michigan man who lives near Mount Pleasant has beaten one in 10 million odds to win $1.35 million in a recent Michigan Lottery Classic Lotto 47 drawing. What makes Joseph Palmarchuk's win even more unbelievable, though, is that it's his second million-dollar lottery win since 2011, the Michigan Lottery reports.     For other who decide to play, Palmarchuk has a few words of advice. “My biggest word of advice is don’t take food of the table to buy a ticket," he said.  Palmarchuk doesn't have that problem, as he plays with money acquired through his two jackpot wins. He has said he sees more wins in his future.  "I’m gonna hit one more mediocre one and then I’m gonna hit a Powerball or Mega Millions," Palmarchuk said. "After that, I'll retire." The reason for the wins?  "I’m just lucky," he said. "That’s all there is to it."  For the latest on Michigan Lottery, check out MLive.com's lottery page for Daily 3, Daily 4, Poker Lotto, Keno, Mega Millions, Powerball winning numbers and more.  The official Michigan Lottery site offers more information on instant tickets, raffles and other lottery games.  — Jessica Fleischman is an entertainment reporter with MLive/The Saginaw News. Contact her at 989-996-0687, email her at jfleisc2@mlive.com or follow her on Twitter or Facebook .                                      Find Local      Homes for Sale  Apartments  Car Dealers  Used Cars  Jobs  Businesses         Find a job  Buy or sell a car  Find a place to live  See what's for sale  Find a business  View obituaries      Connect with MLive        Subscribe to our newsletters         Like us on Facebook         Subscribe on YouTube           Most Read    Active Discussions                            About Us    MLive Media Group    Our Team    Advertise    Frequently Asked Questions      Contact Us    Jobs at MLive      Subscriptions    Newspaper | Digital Editions | eNewsletters    The Ann Arbor News    The Bay City Times    The Flint Journal    The Grand Rapids Press    Jackson Citizen Patriot    Kalamazoo Gazette    Muskegon Chronicle    The Saginaw News        MLive Sections    News    Business    Sports    High School Sports    Entertainment    Living    Opinion    Obituaries      Jobs    Autos    Real Estate    Apartment Rentals    Classifieds    Local Deals    Local Businesses    Business Resource Center      Your Regional News Pages    Ann Arbor    Bay City    Detroit    Flint    Grand Rapids      Jackson    Kalamazoo    Lansing    Muskegon    Saginaw      Mobile    Mobile apps | Tablet apps        More on MLive    Photos    Video    Weather    Post a job      Post a free classified ad    Sell your car    Sell/Rent your home    Apartments and Rentals    Sponsor Content      Follow Us    Twitter | Facebook | YouTube        Advance Local  Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy   © 2018 MLive Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used,
            except with the prior written permission of MLive Media Group.   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.    Ad Choices               Subscribe Now for about $2.31 Per Week Home News Sports Business Autos Life + Home Entertainment Opinion Photo + Video Subscribe More Home News Sports Business Autos Life + Home Entertainment Opinion Photo + Video Subscribe Firefly Hi Already a subscriber? Log in Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device. Subscribe Now Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login? Activate your digital access. Manage your account settings. My Account View the E-Newspaper Manage your Newsletters View your Insider deals and more Member ID Card Log Out Follow Search Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Email Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Big jackpots get all the attention, but the better bet for now is the low-key Lotto 47 Post to Facebook Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Big jackpots get all the attention, but the better bet for now is the low-key Lotto 47  Check out this story on detroitnews.com: http://detne.ws/2klDdxe Cancel Send Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 4 Join the Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Rubin: Hey, lottery players — you’re doing it wrong Neal Rubin , The Detroit News Published 7:22 p.m. ET Jan. 23, 2017 | Updated 5:05 p.m. ET Jan. 30, 2017 Buy Photo Employee Andrew Bahri, left, 19, of Walled Lake, sells a Powerball lottery ticket to customer Kendra Burgess, right, 20, of Hazel Park, as she shops with friend, Alexandra Whittaker, center, 25, of Milford. . (Photo: Todd McInturf / The Detroit News) Buy Photo CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 4 COMMENT EMAIL MORE I would not encourage you to buy a Lotto 47 ticket. Gambling is a vice, and there’s all that sin and perdition and stuff to deal with. Besides, I don’t want the competition. Speaking as a former Las Vegan, though, and as someone who attended college on a seven-card stud scholarship, I will say this: If you’re inclined to buy a lotto ticket between now and Wednesday, think small. Wednesday night’s multi-state Powerball jackpot stands at $206 million. Also Wednesday, the humble, Michigan-only Lotto 47 game will offer a top prize of $19,600,000. By my calculations, $19.6 million is a lot less than $206 million. Still, in a rarity for a jackpot-style game, Lotto 47 is temporarily a good bet. Meantime, Powerball remains what it always is, a $2 tax on a daydream. I should point out that I am not here to shill for the Michigan Lottery , which has an ample advertising budget and seems to be thriving on its own. I am also not suggesting that “a good bet” and “a smart bet” are necessarily the same thing. I should also point out that I will soon interrupt your day with a few numbers — though if it’s any more appealing, we will also discuss bananas and Kim Kardashian. And, I should quickly introduce you to Ruth Cassidy, the president of the Ann Arbor chapter of the American Statistical Association . Cassidy has never purchased a lottery ticket, and as someone on close personal terms with percentages and probabilities, she says that “even if it seems like your chances of a higher payout are better now, your chances of winning at all are still basically zero." With those disclaimers out of the way, let us gradually move on to Lotto 47, the Libertarian party of the lottery system: Yeah, it’s on the ballot, but it doesn’t get any love or any billboards or even any of those lighted signs in the front windows of gas stations. About those bananas It’s human nature to get fixated on the jumbo jackpots. The problem for the Michigan Lottery is that the more we see prizes of $150 million on up, the harder it is to get our attention. As spokesman Jeff Holyfield puts it, “All jackpots are good, but bigger jackpots are better.” What the wagering public typically doesn’t consider are odds. Not only does a Powerball ticket cost $2, twice as much as Lotto 47, the chances of winning the grand prize are 1 in 292,201,338. A University of Colorado professor named Paul Campos figured out that with about 300 million pocket phones in use in the United States, and with Kim Kardashian owning three of them, you are three times more likely to dial a random cell number and reach her than you are to cash the big ticket. Then there’s the banana analogy , as expressed in Good Magazine. Assume you went to Kroger and bought 292,201,338 bananas, at an average length of 71/2 inches. Lay them end-to-end and they would wrap around the 24,901 miles of the equator, then extend almost 10 miles into space. To win at Powerball, all you have to do is pick the one correct banana. Of course, occasionally somebody does, which is what keeps us lining up at 7-Eleven. (That, and Wild Cherry Slurpees.) Improving your odds The Lotto 47 jackpot starts small, a mere $1 million compared to $40 million for Powerball. It grows slowly, since lottery players prefer the flashier games like Powerball and Mega Millions, and it’s won with relative frequency, because the odds are a comparatively trifling 10,737,573-1. Flukishly, however, the jackpot has gone unclaimed since June 22. Wednesday’s $19.6 million top prize would be the second-highest ever, next to a $23.6 million hit in 2008. It has become what gamblers call an overlay, meaning the payoff is greater than the odds against claiming it. For an analogy far easier to swallow than 292 million bananas, consider that the population of Michigan is 9.91 million. Throw in greater Toledo at 651,429, and that’s just about the same number as the Lotto 47 odds. It almost makes winning seem likely — which, to toss out one last dose of reality, would be incorrect. Cassidy is a statistician in the surgery department at the University of Michigan Health System . As a numbers ninja, “I’ve been asked for advice,” she says. Her response is always, “Don’t play the lottery.” But if you’re inclined to, this could be the week to have faith — just a little of it, maybe $19.6 million worth. nrubin@detroitnews.com @nealrubin_dn CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 4 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Read or Share this story: http://detne.ws/2klDdxe More Stories Finley: Ask Zuckerberg why he censors conservatives April 9, 2018, 11:02 p.m. Column: Work requirements can save Medicaid April 9, 2018, 10:54 p.m. Column: Support recreational fishing April 9, 2018, 10:58 p.m. Bankole: In search of black-friendly law enforcement April 8, 2018, 10:44 p.m. Column: GOP gov race not inevitable April 8, 2018, 10:44 p.m. Column: No warrantless searches on buses April 9, 2018, 10:54 p.m.            Home  American Lotteries  Canadian Lotteries  Lottery Tools  FAQs  Contact      About Michigan Lotto 47   Lotto 47, previously known as Classic Lotto 47, is Michigan's lottery.  This game replaced the WinFall lottery.  The first draw was on May 18, 2005, with draws occurring biweekly on Wednesday and Saturday at approximately 7:29pm.  Players choose 6 numbers from a pool of 47 numbers. Although our website contains lotteries whose draw are made primarily from Ball machines, we have included Lotto 47 in our databases as well.  For Lotto 47, 6 numbers are randomly generated from a random number generator.  You can supplement your ticket withe EZMatch for more prizes.  Summary for Michigan Lotto 47   Number of Draws:    1345   Official Website:    https://www.michiganlottery.com   First Draw:    Wednesday, May 18, 2005   Country:    US   Draw Days:    Wednesday|Saturday   Draw Format:    6 Main Numbers   Play Format:    Play 6 Main Numbers   Main Number Choices:    47   Odds of Winning Michigan Lotto 47  Match Prize Chances of Winning ($1 game)  6 of 6 Jackpot 1 in 10,737,573  5 of 6 $2500 1 in 43,649  4 of 6 $100 1 in 873  3 of 6 $5 1 in 50  Overall odds are 1 in 47   Recent Draws for Michigan Lotto 47  Saturday, April 7, 2018 9 23 28 35 41 45 Wednesday, April 4, 2018 9 33 35 41 45 47 Saturday, March 31, 2018 7 8 13 17 41 45 Wednesday, March 28, 2018 3 15 33 34 37 46 Saturday, March 24, 2018 1 2 9 21 28 29  Michigan Lotto 47 Tools  Click here to view past draw numbers for Michigan Lotto 47  Click here to perform a Quick-Pick for Michigan Lotto 47 Click here to search for your numbers for Michigan Lotto 47   Michigan Lotto 47 Frequency Chart  (From: Wednesday, May 18, 2005)                 Follow us:   Sitemap  Copyright © 2014 - 2018 Lotto Database. All rights reserved.  All results are unofficial.  Please view our disclaimer.   