        USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Supervolcanoes  What is a supervolcano?    The term "supervolcano" implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the 
Volcano Explosivity Index ( VEI ), meaning 
the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). 
The VEI scale was created as a general 
measurement of the explosivity of an eruption. There are multiple characteristics used to give an 
eruption its VEI allowing for the 
classification of current and historic eruptions. The most common criteria are volume of ejecta ( ash , pumice , lava ) and column height. 
All VEI 8 eruptions occurred tens of thousands to millions of years ago making the volume of 
ejecta or 
deposits the best method for 
classification. An eruption is classified as a VEI 8 if the measured volume of deposits is greater 
than 
1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic 
miles). Therefore a supervolcano is a volcano that at one point in time erupted more than 1,000 
cubic 
kilometers of deposits. 
Yellowstone, like many other supervolcanoes, has also had much smaller eruptions. The cartoon 
shows 
a comparison of eruption sizes, 
including the three largest from Yellowstone. Click on the image for a more detailed description 
and 
larger view.  What are some other examples of supervolcanoes?  Volcanoes that produced exceedingly voluminous pyroclastic eruptions and formed large calderas 
in the 
past 2 million years would include 
Yellowstone, Long Valley in eastern California, Toba in Indonesia, and Taupo in New Zealand. 
Other 
"supervolcanoes" would likely include 
the large caldera volcanoes of Japan, Indonesia, and South America. The most recent 
supervolcanic 
eruption on Earth occurred 27,000 years 
ago at Taupo located at the center of New Zealand's north island.  I read that scientists couldn't find the Yellowstone caldera until they looked at a photo of 
Yellowstone from space. Is this 
true?  Not according to Bob Christiansen. Bob is the USGS scientist who delineated the three Yellowstone 
calderas and told the world about the 
great eruptions that formed them. Bob reports that he traced out the caldera boundaries through 
old 
fashioned field work... walking 
around with a hammer and hand lens and looking carefully at the rocks and their distributions. 
Most of 
the key observations were made in 
the 1960s and 1970s. Several authors have written that these large calderas were discovered from 
space 
and we suspect that the rumor 
probably got started because initial field work that delineated them was partly funded by NASA. 
The 
idea was to compare well-constrained 
geologic maps with images taken from space. So Bob's geologic map was used to verify the NASA 
images, not the other way around.  In 2005, BBC and 
the Discovery 
Channel produced a docudrama and documentary about 
Yellowstone called Supervolcano . Below, Yellowstone Volcano Observatory scientists 
answer 
questions that arose after this program 
aired that relate to supervolcanoes, volcanic hazards, and Yellowstone.  The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera -forming 
eruption at 
Yellowstone.  The scale of the 
portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 
million 
years ago.  The movie is realistic 
insofar as depicting what could happen if an eruption of this magnitude were to occur again.  
Although 
the drama is set in the future, it 
does an acceptable job of addressing some of the issues scientists would grapple with if 
Yellowstone 
showed signs of an impending 
eruption. The questions and answers below shed light on issues related to volcanism at 
Yellowstone. A 
much more detailed discussion, 
including full-color illustrations, can be found in the 
U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 
about Yellowstone's activity .   QUESTION:  What is the chance of another catastrophic volcanic eruption at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Although it is possible, scientists are not convinced that there will ever be another 
catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone.  
Given Yellowstone's past history, the yearly probability of another caldera -forming eruption can be approximated as 1 in 730,000 or 
0.00014%.  However, this number is based simply on averaging the two intervals between the 
three 
major past eruptions at Yellowstone 
— this is hardly enough to make a critical judgment.  This probability is roughly similar to 
that of 
a large (1 kilometer) asteroid 
hitting the Earth. Moreover, catastrophic geologic events are neither regular nor predictable.   QUESTION:  What would happen if a "supervolcano" eruption occurred again at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Such a giant eruption would have regional effects such as falling ash and short-
term 
(years to decades) changes to global 
climate.  The surrounding states of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming would be affected, as well as 
other 
places in the United States and the 
world.  Such eruptions usually form calderas, broad volcanic depressions created as the ground 
surface 
collapses as a result of 
withdrawal of partially molten rock ( magma ) below.  Fortunately, the chances of this sort of 
eruption at 
Yellowstone are exceedingly 
small in the next few thousands of years.   QUESTION:  Is Yellowstone monitored for volcanic activity?  ANSWER:  Yes.  The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership between the United 
States Geological Survey (USGS), 
Yellowstone National Park, and the University of Utah, closely monitors volcanic activity at 
Yellowstone.  
The YVO website features real-
time 
data for earthquakes , ground deformation , stream flow, and selected stream temperatures.  In addition, YVO scientists 
collaborate 
with scientists from around the 
world to study the Yellowstone volcano.   QUESTION:  Do scientists know if a catastrophic eruption is currently imminent at 
Yellowstone?  ANSWER: There is no evidence that a catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone is imminent, and 
such 
events are unlikely to occur in the 
next few centuries. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava .   QUESTION:  How far in advance could scientists predict an eruption of the Yellowstone 
volcano?  ANSWER: The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the 
past 25 
years. Most scientists think that 
the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months 
to 
years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions 
include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to 
weeks 
before an actual eruption. 
Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) closely monitor the Yellowstone region 
for such 
precursors.  They expect that the 
buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background 
levels) 
at multiple spots within the 
Yellowstone volcano.  As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes , ground 
uplift 
and subsidence, and gas releases at 
Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.   QUESTION:  Can you release some of the pressure at Yellowstone by drilling into the volcano?  ANSWER:  No. Scientists agree that drilling into a volcano would be of
questionable usefulness. Notwithstanding the enormous expense and technological
difficulties in drilling through hot, mushy rock, drilling is unlikely
to have much effect. At near magmatic temperatures and pressures, any hole would rapidly 
become 
sealed by minerals crystallizing from the 
natural fluids that are present at those depths.   QUESTION:  Could the Yellowstone volcano have an eruption that is not catastrophic?  ANSWER:  Yes.  Over the past 640,000 years since the last giant eruption at Yellowstone, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive 
eruptions have occurred and produced primarily lava flows. This would be the most likely kind of 
future 
eruption. If such an event were 
to occur today, there would be much disruption of activities in Yellowstone National Park, but in 
all 
likelihood few lives would be 
threatened.  The most recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone 
Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.   QUESTION:  Because Yellowstone is so geologically active, are there other potential geologic 
hazards in Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  The heat and geologic forces fueling the massive Yellowstone volcano affect the park in 
many 
ways.  Yellowstone's many geysers, 
hotsprings, steam vents , and mudpots are evidence of the heat and geologic forces. These 
hydrothermal 
(hot water) features are mostly 
benign, but can rarely be the sites of violent steam explosions and pose a hydrothermal hazard. Earthquakes , another example of active 
geologic forces, are quite common in Yellowstone, with 1,000 to 3,000 occurring annually. Most 
of 
these are quite small, although 
significant earthquakes have shaken Yellowstone, such as the 1959 magnitude 7.5 Hebgen Lake 
quake, 
the largest historical earthquake in 
the intermountain region, and the 1975 magnitude 6.1 quake near Norris Geyser Basin. The many 
earthquakes and steam explosions in the 
past 10,000 years at Yellowstone have not led to volcanic eruptions.       Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2015-08-21 08:05:03                                                             Log In or Sign Up     Log In    Sign Up              Explainers    Politics & Policy    World    Culture    Science & Health    Identities    Energy & Environment    The Big Idea    Technology    Business & Finance    First Person    Video    Podcasts    More                   Explainers    Politics & Policy    World    Culture    Science & Health    Identities    Energy & Environment    The Big Idea    Technology    Business & Finance    First Person    Video    Podcasts   ✕              What would happen if the Yellowstone supervolcano actually erupted?   By  Brad Plumer @bradplumer   Updated Dec 15, 2014, 10:24am EST        Share     Tweet        Share     Share  What would happen if the Yellowstone supervolcano actually erupted?      tweet     share          Reddit       Pocket         Flipboard     Email                    An aerial flight over Yellowstone’s Midway Geyser Basin in 2004 shows Grand Prismatic Spring and Excelsior Geyser Crater, which drain into the nearby Firehole River.  US Geological Survey     If the supervolcano underneath Yellowstone National Park ever had another massive eruption, it could spew ash for thousands of miles across the United States, damaging buildings, smothering crops, and shutting down power plants. It'd be a huge disaster.  A super-eruption would be horrific — though also pretty unlikely  But that doesn't mean we should all start freaking out. The odds of that happening are thankfully pretty low. The Yellowstone supervolcano — thousands of times more powerful than a regular volcano — has only had three truly enormous eruptions in history. One occurred 2.1 million years ago, one 1.3 million years ago, and one 664,000 years ago.  And despite what you sometimes hear in the press, there's no indication that we're due for another "super-eruption" anytime soon. In fact, it's even possible that Yellowstone might never have an eruption that large again.  Even so, the Yellowstone supervolcano remains an endless source of apocalyptic fascination — and it's not hard to see why. In September 2014 , a team of scientists published a paper in Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems exploring what a Yellowstone super-eruption might actually look like.  Among other things, they found the volcano was capable of burying states like Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, and Colorado in three feet of harmful volcanic ash — a mix of splintered rock and glass — and blanket the Midwest. That much ash could kill plants and animals, crush roofs, and short all sorts of electrical equipment:  Ash, ash, everywhere   An example of the possible distribution of ash from a month-long Yellowstone supereruption. (US Geological Survey)  When I called up one of the study's co-authors, Jacob Lowenstern of the US Geological Survey, he stressed that the paper was not any sort of prediction of the future. "Even if Yellowstone did erupt again, you probably wouldn't get that worst-case scenario," he says. "What's much, much more common are small eruptions — that's a point that often gets ignored in the press." (And even those small eruptions are very rare.)  Lowenstern is the Scientist-In-Charge of the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory in Menlo Park, California. So I talked to him further about what we actually know about the Yellowstone supervolcano, what its eruptions might look like, and why the odds of disaster are low.  What is the Yellowstone supervolcano?   (National Park Service)  Lurking beneath Yellowstone National Park is a reservoir of hot magma five miles deep, fed by a gigantic plume of molten rock welling up from hundreds of miles below. That heat is responsible for many of the park's famous geysers and hot springs. And as magma rises up into the chamber and cools, the ground above periodically rises and falls .  The vast, vast majority of Yellowstone eruptions are small  On rare occasions throughout history, that magma chamber has  erupted. The vast, vast majority of those eruptions in Yellowstone have been smaller lava flows — with the last occurring at Pitchstone Plateau some 70,000 years ago.  But the reason why Yellowstone gets so much attention is the remote possibility of catastrophic "super-eruptions." A super-eruption is anything that measures magnitude 8 or more on the Volcano Explosivity Index , in which at least 1,000 cubic kilometers (or 240 cubic miles) of material gets ejected. That's enough to bury Texas five feet deep.  These super-eruptions are thousands of times more powerful than even the biggest eruptions we're used to. Here's a chart from USGS comparing the Yellowstone super-eruptions with the Mt. St. Helens eruption of 1980. The difference is staggering:  Super-eruptions vs ordinary eruptions   (US Geological Survey)  Yellowstone has had three of these really massive eruptions in its history — 2.1 million years ago, 1.3 million years ago, and 664,000 years ago. The last of those , at Yellowstone Lava Creek, ejected so much material from below that it left a 34-mile-by-50-mile depression in the ground — what we see today as the Yellowstone Caldera:  Location of past Yellowstone super-eruptions     ( National Park Service )  It's worth noting that Yellowstone is hardly the only  supervolcano out there — geologists have found evidence of at least 47 super-eruptions in Earth's history. The most recent occurred in New Zealand's Lake Taupo some 26,000 years ago.  More dramatically, there was the gargantuan Toba eruption 74,000 years ago, caused by shifting tectonic plates. That triggered a dramatic 6- to 10-year global winter and (according to some) may have nearly wiped out the nascent human race .  On average, the Earth has seen roughly one super-eruption every 100,000 years, although that's not an ironclad law.  So what would a Yellowstone eruption look like?  Let's reiterate that the odds of any sort of Yellowstone eruption, big or small, are very low . But if we're speaking hypothetically…  The most likely eruption scenario in Yellowstone is a smaller event that produced lava flows (similar to what's happening at Iceland's Bárðarbunga right now ) and possible a typical volcanic explosion. This would likely be precipitated by a swarm of earthquakes in a specific region of the park as the magma made its way to the surface.  A super-eruption is capable of sending ash many thousands of miles  Now, in the unlikely event of a much bigger super-eruption, the warning signs would be much bigger. "We'd likely first see intense seismic activity across the entire park," Lowenstern says. It could take weeks or months for those earthquakes to break up the rocks above the magma before an eruption.  And what if we did get a super-eruption — an event that was 1,000 times more powerful than a regular volcanic eruption, ejected at least 240 cubic miles of material, and lasted weeks or months? The lava flows themselves would be contained within a relatively small radius within the park — say, 40 miles or so. In fact, only about one-third of the material would actually make it up into the atmosphere.  The main damage would come from volcanic ash — a combination of splintered rock and glass — that was ejected miles into the air and scattered around the country. In their new paper , Lowenstern and his colleagues looked at both historical ash deposits and advanced modeling to conclude that an eruption would create an umbrella cloud, expanding even in all directions. (This was actually a surprising finding .)  A super-eruption could conceivably bury the northern Rockies in three feet of ash — devastating large swaths of Wyoming, Idaho, Colorado, Montana, and Utah. Meanwhile, the Midwest would get a few inches of ash, while both coasts would see even smaller amounts. The exact distribution would depend on the time of year and weather patterns:  Modeling the spread of ash from a Yellowstone super-eruption   ( Mastin et al 2014 )  Any of those scenarios would be terrible news. That much volcanic ash is capable of killing people, plants, and animals and crushing buildings. Even a few inches of ash (which is what much of the country can get) can destroy farms, clog roadways, cause serious respiratory problems, block sewer lines, and even short out transformers. Air travel would have to shut down across much of North America.  An eruption that big would also cool the planet temporarily  A volcanic eruption that big would also have major effects on the global climate. Volcanoes can emit sulfur aerosols that reflect sunlight back into the atmosphere cool the climate. These particles are short-lived in the atmosphere, so the effect is only temporary, but it can still be dramatic.  When Pinatubo erupted in 1991, it cooled the planet by about 1°C (1.8°F) for a few years. The Tambora eruption in 1815 cooled the planet enough to damage crops around the world — possibly leading to famines in some areas. And those were relatively tiny eruptions compared to what a supervolcano is, in theory, capable of.  Yikes! So what are the odds of a Yellowstone super-eruption?  Very, very low. In fact, it's even possible Yellowstone might never erupt again.  'Odds are very high that Yellowstone will be eruption-free for the coming centuries'  Right now, there's no sign of a pending eruption. Yellowstone park does continue to get earthquakes, and the ground continues to rise and fall, but that's nothing out of the ordinary. "Yellowstone is behaving as it has for the past 140 years," the USGS points out . " Odds are very high that Yellowstone will be eruption-free for the coming centuries."  The USGS also notes that, if you simply took the past three eruptions, the odds of Yellowstone erupting in any given year are 0.00014 percent — lower than the odds of getting hit by a civilization-destroying asteroid . But even that's not a good estimate, since it's not at all certain that Yellowstone erupts on a regular cycle or that it's "overdue" for another eruption. In fact, there might never be a big eruption in Yellowstone again.  "The Earth will see super-eruptions in the future, but will they come in Yellowstone? That's not a sure thing," says Lowenstern. "Yellowstone's already lived a good long life. It may not even see a fourth eruption."  Volcanoes, after all, do die out. The magma chamber below Yellowstone is being affected by two opposing forces — the heat welling up from below and the relative cold from the surface. If less heat comes in from below, then the chamber could conceivably freeze, eventually turning into a solid granite body.  It's also worth noting that the volcanic hotspot underneath Yellowstone is slowly migrating to the northeast (or, more accurately, the North American tectonic plate above the hotspot is migrating southwest). You can see the migration below:  The volcanic hotspot is sloooooowly moving northeast   (USGS)  On a long enough time scale, the hotspot will move out from under Yellowstone — and the Yellowstone supervolcano would, presumably, die out. Of course, it's possible that another supervolcano could emerge further in the northeast, but the hotspot would first have to heat up and melt the cold crust first. And that process could take a million years or longer.  "It's hard to get our minds around something like a million years," Lowenstern says. "Humans are a relatively brand-new species. But Earth's been around a very long time, and these systems take a long time to do what they do."  Further reading  -- The US Geological survey has an excellent FAQ on the Yellowstone supervolcano. They also have a great rundown of the most recent paper modeling a super-eruption.  -- Here's a fascinating (and very accessible) paper Lowenstern wrote in 2006 explaining how scientists actually monitor the Yellowstone volcanic system. A key line: "One obstacle to accurate forecasting of large volcanic events is humanity's lack of familiarity with the singals leading up to the largest class of volcanic eruptions."  -- In the New Yorker , George Black wrote a fun piece about how unhinged fears (and misinformation) about the Yellowstone supervolcano keep going viral.       Next Up In  Science & Health     The US is winning the climate fight in electricity — and losing it just about everywhere else    We’re beginning to learn how moms’ antidepressants can affect fetuses    Scientists have an intriguing new theory about our eyebrows and foreheads    Senators to Trump: what ever happened to your opioid commission’s proposals?    Tribalism put Scott Pruitt in power. It may not be enough to save him.    Vitamins for your hair, nails, and skin are everywhere on Instagram. Don’t fall for them.             Most Read              The Bell Curve is about policy. And it’s wrong.   Charles Murray is an incredibly successful — and pernicious — policy entrepreneur.             Trump’s company is now threatening the president of Panama   The Trump Organization demanded that he intervene in a private business dispute — or pay the consequences.             Toe ointment, a $937 bill, and a hard truth about American health care   "My first reaction was: This is nuts. There is no relationship to the actual cost."             Scientists have an intriguing new theory about our eyebrows and foreheads   Why are eyebrows so expressive? There may be an answer in evolution.             The Sam Harris debate   Ezra and Sam Harris debate race, IQ, identity politics, and much more.                        Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.       Subscribe   By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
    For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page . This Article has a component height of 66. The sidebar size is long.        The Latest            This kind of shooting happens every day in America — and we usually ignore it  By  German Lopez                 One paragraph that explains just how bad Trumpworld’s legal trouble has gotten  By  Jane Coaston                 Kellyanne Conway’s husband is subtweeting Trump  By  Jane Coaston                 9 questions about Facebook and data sharing you were too embarrassed to ask  By  Jen Kirby                 The past 24 hours of dangerous Trump-Russia news, explained  By  Zachary Fryer-Biggs                 Sinclair pundit resigns after threatening Parkland survivor David Hogg on Twitter  By  German Lopez                    Chorus      Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Communications Preferences    Contact  Send Us a Tip  Masthead  About Us    All Systems Operational Check out our status page for more details.      Vox Media  Advertise with us  Jobs @ Vox Media © 2018 Vox Media , Inc. All Rights Reserved          tweet     share     Skip to main content Access keys help Home Explore the BBC  This page has been archived and is no longer updated.  Find out more about page archiving.    17 September 2014 Accessibility help     Nature    Wildlife Finder    Science    Prehistoric Life    Human Body & Mind    Space    BBC Homepage Science & Nature Homepage   In TV & Radio follow-up :   Today's TV & radio   TV & radio programmes    Autumnwatch    Big Cat Diary    Bill Oddie Goes Wild    British Isles: A Natural History    Coast    Countryfile    Earth: The Power of the Planet    Elephant Diaries    Horizon    How to Improve Your Memory    Life in Cold Blood    Life in the Undergrowth    Life of Mammals    Life on Air    Lost Land of the Jaguar    Natural World    Orangutan Diary    Planet Earth    Saving Planet Earth    Seawatch    Secrets of the Sexes    Springwatch    Take One Museum    Tiger - Spy in the Jungle    Walking with dinosaurs    Wild China    More TV programmes    Radio programmes    Presenters    From the field   Contact Us    You are here: BBC > Science & Nature > TV & Radio Follow-up > Programmes > 
Supervolcano               page  Supervolcano  The world's biggest bang  A global disaster never witnessed by modern man may one day mushroom above the pine forests and hot springs of Yellowstone National Park in the United States.  While ordinary volcanoes can kill thousands of people and destroy entire cities, it's thought a supervolcano could claim up to a billion lives and devastate continents.    Heavy stuff: Ash from the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines settles on the tail section of a World Airways DC-10, causing it to tilt onto its rear wheels.  It's very likely a super-eruption would shutdown airports worldwide.   "A super-eruption is the world's biggest bang", says Prof. Bill McGuire of the Benfield Greig Hazard Research Centre at the University of London. "It's a volcanic explosion big enough to dwarf all others and with a reach great enough to affect everyone on the planet". Considering their destructive potential, it's a good thing super-eruptions are so rare – the last one happened in Toba, Indonesia, about 74,000 years ago. Geologists think these eruptions take place about every 50,000 years, which suggests one is overdue.  About 40 supervolcanoes are dotted across the globe. There are two in Britain – one in Glencoe, Scotland, the other in Scafell in the Lake District. However, most supervolcanoes, including those in Britain, burned out long ago.  Yellowstone, located in the western state, Wyoming, is a dormant supervolcano, which means a major eruption could happen in the future. But before you get worried, it's important to remember that most volcano experts say a Yellowstone super-eruption is probably a long way off, or it may never happen at all.   Super size: About 2.1 m years ago the Yellowstone supervolcano erupted 2,500 times more ash than Mount St Helens (pictured).  Read about the 1980 Mount St Helens eruption on BBC On This Day.   "It's far more likely, if there is an eruption, it'll be on a small scale, perhaps comparable to Mt St Helens," says volcano expert Prof. Steve Sparks of the University of Bristol.  Although they're called 'super', most people would have trouble spotting a supervolcano. Their main feature is a large magma chamber, which is an underground reservoir filled with flowing, hot rock under huge pressures.  Some stats on the Yellowstone supervolcano:  A super-eruption would equal the force of 1,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs exploding every second. You could fit Tokyo, the world's biggest city, in Yellowstone's super-volcanic crater. Three super-eruptions at Yellowstone appear to have occurred on a 600,000-700,000 year cycle starting 2.1 million years ago. The most recent took place 640,000 years ago – suggesting Yellowstone is overdue for an eruption. Continue to page two and find out how much volcanic ash it takes to collapse a roof.  The US Geological Survey has more information about the Yellowstone supervolcano.  (The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
websites.)  Back to Supervolcano homepage  page                  Elsewhere in Supervolcano        Supervolcano homepage  Supervolcano Read about the programmes.  Photo gallery See dramatic scenes from the programme and download wallpapers for your
computer.  Respond to a disaster Play a game where it's your job to handle an eruption of the fictional Mount Spur.       Elsewhere on bbc.co.uk        Horizon: Supervolcanoes Read a transcript of the programme that inspired Supervolcano.  Natural disasters Ten per cent of the world's population may live within volcanic danger zones.  Radio 4: Supervolcano Listen as Peter Evans meets scientists studying the Yellowstone supervolcano.  Mount St Helens erupts BBC On This Day has video and articles about the 1980 eruption of the famous US volcano.       Elsewhere on the web        Yellowstone Volcano Observatory The US Geological Survey has detailed information about the supervolcano.  Discovery: Supervolcano Discovery.com describes what is under Yellowstone.  Volcanoes and climate change A NASA article explaining how volcanoes change the weather.  London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre London VAAC is one of nine international centres on the lookout for volcanic ash.  The Geological Society An in-depth study of the effects of super-eruptions.  Volcano Live Volcano news and information from expert John Seach.  Volcano World A University of North Dakota site with information about volcanoes around the world.  How Volcanoes Work A NASA sponsored site about volcano science.  What is ash? The US Geological Society explains what to do if you experience volcanic ash.  USGS photo library The US Geological Society has an extensive collection of geology photographs.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites              Science Homepage | Nature Homepage Wildlife Finder | Prehistoric Life | Human Body & Mind | Space  Go to top   About the BBC | Help | Terms of Use | Privacy & Cookies Policy         USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Yellowstone Volcanic History  When was the last time there was volcanism at Yellowstone?  The most recent volcanic activity consisted of rhyolitic  lava flows that erupted 
approximately 70,000 years ago. The largest of these flows formed the Pitchstone 
Plateau in southwestern Yellowstone National Park.  How much volcanic activity has there been at Yellowstone since the most 
recent giant eruption?  Since the most recent giant caldera -forming eruption, 640,000 years ago, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive eruptions have occurred. Of these 
eruptions, at least 27 were rhyolite  lava flows in the caldera, 13 were rhyolite 
lava flows outside the caldera and 40 were basalt  vents outside the caldera. 
Some of the eruptions were approximately the size of the devastating 1991 
Pinatubo eruption in the Philippines, and several were much larger. The most 
recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.  How often do volcanic eruptions occur at Yellowstone?  Three extremely large explosive eruptions have occurred at Yellowstone in the 
past 2.1 million years with a recurrence interval of about 600,000 to 800,000 
years. More frequent eruptions of basalt and rhyolite  lava flows have occurred 
before and after the large caldera -forming events. For example, scientists have 
identified at least 27 different rhyolite lava flows that erupted after the most 
recent caldera eruptions, about 640,000 years ago, from vents inside the 
caldera. The most recent was about 70,000 years ago. Many of these eruptions 
were separated in time by several tens of thousands of years. Because the 
evidence of earlier eruptions may have been either buried or destroyed, we do 
not really know how often the volcano has actually erupted.  What was the extent of ash deposition from the largest Yellowstone 
eruptions?   During the three giant caldera -forming eruptions that occurred between 2.1 
million and 640,000 years ago, tiny particles of volcanic debris (volcanic ash ) 
covered much of the western half of North America, likely a third of a meter 
deep several hundred kilometers from Yellowstone and several centimeters thick 
farther away. Wind carried sulfur aerosol and the lightest ash 
particles around the planet and likely caused a notable decrease in temperatures 
around the globe.   How many caldera-forming eruptions have occurred from the long-lived 
hotspot 
that is currently beneath Yellowstone?   Many eruptive units found along the path of the Yellowstone hotspot have been 
dated, but only a few of them represent large caldera -forming eruptions. At 
least five volcanic fields centered on large caldera complexes have been 
identified. Some of these caldera complexes erupted climatically more than once; 
probably 15 to 20 caldera-forming eruptions have occurred along the hotspot as 
it left a trail from western Idaho to Yellowstone within the past 16.5 million 
years.  How many giant eruptions have occurred in the Yellowstone National Park 
region and how large were they?  Volcanic activity began in the Yellowstone National Park region a little before 
about 2 million years ago. Molten rock ( magma ) rising from deep within the 
Earth produced three cataclysmic eruptions more powerful than any in the world's 
recorded history. The first caldera -forming eruption occurred about 2.1 million 
years ago. The eruptive blast removed so much magma from its subsurface storage 
reservoir that the ground above it collapsed into the magma chamber and left a 
gigantic depression in the ground- a hole larger than the state of Rhode Island. 
The huge crater, known as a caldera, measured as much as 80 kilometers long, 65 
kilometers wide, and hundreds of meters deep, extending from outside of 
Yellowstone National Park into the central area of the Park (see map in question 
above for location information).  Later, activity shifted to a smaller region within the Island Park area of 
eastern Idaho, just southwest of Yellowstone National Park, and produced another 
large caldera -forming eruption 1.3 million years ago. Subsequent activity has 
been focused within the area of the National Park, and another huge eruption 
640,000 years ago formed the Yellowstone caldera as we now see it.  The three caldera -forming eruptions, respectively, were about 6,000, 700, and 
2,500 times larger than the May 18, 1980 eruption of Mt. St. Helens in 
Washington State. Together, the three catastrophic eruptions expelled enough ash and lava to fill the Grand Canyon.  In addition to the three climactic eruptions, activity associated with each of 
the three caldera cycles produced dozens or even hundreds of smaller eruptions 
that produced both lava and pyroclastic materials.  How do the giant eruptions in the Yellowstone National Park region compare 
to other large historic eruptions?   This graphic shows that the three largest Yellowstone eruptions emitted much 
more material than the eruptions of Mount St. Helens (1980), Mount Pinatubo 
(1991), Krakatau (1883), Mount Mazama (7,600 years ago), and Tambora (1815).      Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2012-07-06 15:30:24                     Yellowstone Caldera   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search     Yellowstone Caldera     The northeastern part of Yellowstone Caldera, with the Yellowstone River flowing through Hayden Valley and the caldera rim in the distance     Highest point    Elevation  9,203 [1] ft (2,805 m)    Coordinates  44°24′N  110°42′W ﻿ / ﻿ 44.400°N 110.700°W ﻿ / 44.400; -110.700 ﻿ ( Yellowstone Caldera ) Coordinates : 44°24′N  110°42′W ﻿ / ﻿ 44.400°N 110.700°W ﻿ / 44.400; -110.700 ﻿ ( Yellowstone Caldera )     Geography    Location  Yellowstone National Park , Wyoming , United States    Parent range  Rocky Mountains    Topo map  USGS Yellowstone National Park    Geology    Age of rock  2,100,000–70,000 years [3]    Mountain type  Caldera [2] and supervolcano    Climbing    Easiest route  Hike / auto / bus    The Yellowstone Caldera is a volcanic  caldera and supervolcano in Yellowstone National Park in the Western United States , sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano . The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming . The major features of the caldera measure about 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km). [4]  The caldera formed during the last of three supereruptions over the past 2.1 million years: the Huckleberry Ridge eruption 2.1 million years ago (which created the Island Park Caldera and the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff ); the Mesa Falls eruption 1.3 million years ago (which created the Henry's Fork Caldera and the Mesa Falls Tuff ); and the Lava Creek eruption approximately 630,000 years ago (which created the Yellowstone Caldera and the Lava Creek Tuff ). [5]      Contents    1  Volcanism at Yellowstone  2  Yellowstone hotspot origin  3  Hazards   3.1  Earthquakes  3.2  Volcanoes  3.3  Hydrothermal explosions    4  See also  5  References  6  Further reading  7  External links     Volcanism at Yellowstone     Yellowstone sits on top of four overlapping calderas. (US NPS)    Volcanism at Yellowstone is relatively recent, with calderas that were created during large eruptions that took place 2.1 million, 1.3 million, and 630,000 years ago. The calderas lie over a hotspot where light, hot, magma (molten rock) from the mantle rises toward the surface. While the Yellowstone hotspot is now under the Yellowstone Plateau , it did help to create the eastern Snake River Plain (to the west of Yellowstone) through a series of huge volcanic eruptions . The hotspot appears to move across terrain in the east-northeast direction, but in fact the hotspot is much deeper than terrain and remains stationary while the North American Plate moves west-southwest over it. [6]  Over the past 18 million years or so, this hotspot has generated a succession of violent eruptions and less violent floods of basaltic lava . Together these eruptions have helped create the eastern part of the Snake River Plain from a once-mountainous region. At least a dozen of these eruptions were so massive that they are classified as supereruptions . Volcanic eruptions sometimes empty their stores of magma so swiftly that the overlying land collapses into the emptied magma chamber , forming a geographic depression called a caldera.  The oldest identified caldera remnant straddles the border near McDermitt, Nevada–Oregon , although there are volcaniclastic piles and arcuate faults that define caldera complexes more than 60 km (37 mi) in diameter in the Carmacks Group of southwest-central Yukon , Canada , which are interpreted to have formed 70 million years ago by the Yellowstone hotspot. [7] [8] Progressively younger caldera remnants, most grouped in several overlapping volcanic fields , extend from the Nevada – Oregon border through the eastern Snake River Plain and terminate in the Yellowstone Plateau. One such caldera, the Bruneau-Jarbidge caldera in southern Idaho , was formed between 10 and 12 million years ago, and the event dropped ash to a depth of one foot (30 cm) 1,000 miles (1,600 km) away in northeastern Nebraska and killed large herds of rhinoceros , camel, and other animals at Ashfall Fossil Beds State Historical Park. The United States Geological Survey ("USGS") estimates there are one or two major caldera-forming eruptions and 100 or so lava extruding eruptions per million years, and "several to many" steam eruptions per century. [9]  The loosely defined term " supervolcano " has been used to describe volcanic fields that produce exceptionally large volcanic eruptions. Thus defined, the Yellowstone Supervolcano is the volcanic field which produced the latest three supereruptions from the Yellowstone hotspot; it also produced one additional smaller eruption, thereby creating West Thumb Lake [10] 174,000 years ago. The three supereruptions occurred 2.1 million, 1.3 million, and approximately 630,000 years ago, forming the Island Park Caldera , the Henry's Fork Caldera , and Yellowstone calderas, respectively. [11] The Island Park Caldera supereruption (2.1 million years ago), which produced the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff, was the largest, and produced 2,500 times as much ash as the 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption . The next biggest supereruption formed the Yellowstone Caldera (~ 630,000 years ago) and produced the Lava Creek Tuff. The Henry's Fork Caldera (1.2 million years ago) produced the smaller Mesa Falls Tuff, but is the only caldera from the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone hotspot that is plainly visible today. [12]  Non-explosive eruptions of lava and less-violent explosive eruptions have occurred in and near the Yellowstone caldera since the last supereruption. [13] [14] The most recent lava flow occurred about 70,000 years ago, while a violent eruption excavated the West Thumb of Lake Yellowstone around 150,000 years ago. Smaller steam explosions occur as well: an explosion 13,800 years ago left a 5 km (3.1 mi) diameter crater at Mary Bay on the edge of Yellowstone Lake (located in the center of the caldera). [15] [3] Currently, volcanic activity is exhibited via numerous geothermal vents scattered throughout the region, including the famous Old Faithful Geyser , plus recorded ground-swelling indicating ongoing inflation of the underlying magma chamber.  The volcanic eruptions, as well as the continuing geothermal activity, are a result of a great cove of magma located below the caldera's surface. The magma in this cove contains gases that are kept dissolved by the immense pressure under which the magma is contained. If the pressure is released to a sufficient degree by some geological shift, then some of the gases bubble out and cause the magma to expand. This can cause a chain reaction . If the expansion results in further relief of pressure, for example, by blowing crust material off the top of the chamber, the result is a very large gas explosion.  According to analysis of earthquake data in 2013, the magma chamber is 80 km (50 mi) long and 20 km (12 mi) wide. It also has 4,000 km 3 (960 cu mi) underground volume, of which 6–8% is filled with molten rock. This is about 2.5 times bigger than scientists had previously imagined it to be; however, scientists believe that the proportion of molten rock in the chamber is much too low to allow another supereruption. [16] [17]  Yellowstone hotspot origin  Main article: Yellowstone hotspot  The source of the Yellowstone hotspot is controversial. Some geoscientists hypothesize that the Yellowstone hotspot is the effect of an interaction between local conditions in the lithosphere and upper mantle convection . [18] [19] Others suggest an origin in the deep mantle ( mantle plume ). [20] Part of the controversy is the relatively sudden appearance of the hotspot in the geologic record. Additionally, the Columbia Basalt flows appeared at the same approximate time in the same place, causing speculation about their common origin. As the Yellowstone hotspot traveled to the east and north, the Columbia disturbance moved northward and eventually subsided. [21]  Hazards  Earthquakes     Number of earthquakes in Yellowstone National Park region (1973–2014) [22]    Volcanic and tectonic actions in the region cause between 1,000 and 2,000 measurable earthquakes annually. Most are relatively minor, measuring a magnitude of 3 or weaker. Occasionally, numerous earthquakes are detected in a relatively short period of time, an event known as an earthquake swarm . In 1985, more than 3,000 earthquakes were measured over a period of several months. More than 70 smaller swarms were detected between 1983 and 2008. The USGS states these swarms are likely caused by slips on pre-existing faults rather than by movements of magma or hydrothermal fluids. [23] [24]  In December 2008, continuing into January 2009, more than 500 quakes were detected under the northwest end of Yellowstone Lake over a seven-day span, with the largest registering a magnitude of 3.9. [25] [26] Another swarm started in January 2010, after the Haiti earthquake and before the Chile earthquake . With 1,620 small earthquakes between January 17, 2010, and February 1, 2010, this swarm was the second-largest ever recorded in the Yellowstone Caldera. The largest of these shocks was a magnitude 3.8 that occurred on January 21, 2010. [24] [27] This swarm reached the background levels by February 21. On March 30, 2014, at 6:34 AM MST, a magnitude 4.8 earthquake struck Yellowstone, the largest recorded there since February 1980. [28] In February 2018, more than 300 earthquakes occurred, with the largest being a magnitude 2.9. [29]  Volcanoes     Diagram of the Yellowstone Caldera    The last full-scale eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, the Lava Creek eruption which happened approximately 640,000 years ago, [30] ejected approximately 240 cubic miles (1,000 km 3 ) of rock, dust and volcanic ash into the sky. [3]  Geologists are closely monitoring the rise and fall of the Yellowstone Plateau , which has been rising as fast as 0.6 inches (1.5 cm) per year, as an indication of changes in magma chamber pressure. [31] [32]  The upward movement of the Yellowstone caldera floor between 2004 and 2008—almost 3 inches (7.6 cm) each year—was more than three times greater than ever observed since such measurements began in 1923. [33] From 2004 to 2008, the land surface within the caldera moved upward as much as 8 inches (20 cm) at the White Lake GPS station. [34] [35] By the end of 2009, the uplift had slowed significantly and appeared to have stopped. [36] In January 2010, the USGS stated that "uplift of the Yellowstone Caldera has slowed significantly" [37] and that uplift continues but at a slower pace. [38] The U.S. Geological Survey, University of Utah and National Park Service scientists with the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory maintain that they "see no evidence that another such cataclysmic eruption will occur at Yellowstone in the foreseeable future. Recurrence intervals of these events are neither regular nor predictable." [3] This conclusion was reiterated in December 2013 in the aftermath of the publication of a study by University of Utah scientists finding that the "size of the magma body beneath Yellowstone is significantly larger than had been thought". The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory issued a statement on its website stating,   Although fascinating, the new findings do not imply increased geologic hazards at Yellowstone, and certainly do not increase the chances of a 'supereruption' in the near future. Contrary to some media reports, Yellowstone is not 'overdue' for a supereruption. [39]   Other media reports were more hyperbolic in their coverage. [40]  A study published in GSA Today , the monthly news and science magazine of the Geological Society of America , identified three fault zones on which future eruptions are most likely to be centered. [41] Two of those areas are associated with lava flows aged 174,000–70,000 years, and the third is a focus of present-day seismicity. [41]  Hydrothermal explosions     Path of the Yellowstone hot spot over the past 16 million years    Further information: Hydrothermal explosion  Studies and analysis may indicate that the greater hazard comes from hydrothermal activity which occurs independently of volcanic activity. Over 20 large craters have been produced in the past 14,000 years, resulting in such features as Mary Bay, Turbid Lake, and Indian Pond which was created in an eruption about 1300 BC.  In a 2003 report, USGS researchers proposed that an earthquake may have displaced more than 77 million cubic feet (2,200,000 m 3 ) (576,000,000 US gallons) of water in Yellowstone Lake, creating colossal waves that unsealed a capped geothermal system and led to the hydrothermal explosion that formed Mary Bay. [42] [43]  Further research shows that very distant earthquakes reach and have effects upon the activities at Yellowstone, such as the 1992 7.3 magnitude Landers earthquake in California ’s Mojave Desert that triggered a swarm of quakes from more than 800 miles (1,300 km) away, and the 2002 7.9 magnitude Denali fault earthquake 2,000 miles (3,200 km) away in Alaska that altered the activity of many geysers and hot springs for several months afterward. [44]  In 2016, the United States Geological Survey announced plans to map the subterranean systems responsible for feeding the area's hydrothermal activity. According to the researchers, these maps could help predict when another supereruption occurs. [45]  See also   Iceland hotspot and Iceland plume describes aspects of volcanic processes  Long Valley Caldera , Valles Caldera , La Garita Caldera : examples of other calderas close to but not related to Yellowstone.   References    ^  USGS. "Yellowstone Volcano Observatory" . United States Geological Survey .   ^  "Yellowstone" . Global Volcanism Program . Smithsonian Institution . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Lowenstern, Jacob B.; Christiansen, Robert L.; Smith, Robert B.; Morgan, Lisa A.; Heasler, Henry (May 10, 2005). "Steam Explosions, Earthquakes, and Volcanic Eruptions—What's in Yellowstone's Future? – U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 2005–3024" . United States Geological Survey .   ^  as determined by geological field work conducted by Bob Christiansen of the United States Geological Survey in the 1960s and 1970s.  ^  Naomi E Matthews et al., 2015, "Age of the Lava Creek supereruption and magma chamber assembly at Yellowstone based on 40Ar/39Ar and U-Pb dating of sanidine and zircon crystals" DOI: 10.1002/2015GC005881  ^  "Yellowstone Caldera, Wyoming—USGS" . Cascade Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey . January 22, 2003 . Retrieved December 30, 2008 .   ^  Johnston, Stephen T.; Wynne, P. Jane; Francis, Don; Hart, Craig J. R.; Enkin, Randolph J.; Engebretson, David C. (1996). "Yellowstone in Yukon: The Late Cretaceous Carmacks Group". Geology . 24 (11): 997, 998. Bibcode : 1996Geo....24..997J . doi : 10.1130/0091-7613(1996)024<0997:YIYTLC>2.3.CO;2 .   ^  "Yellowstone hotspot track" . Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory . Retrieved June 10, 2010 .   ^  Yellowstone Volcanic Hazards, USGS . Volcanoes.usgs.gov (March 1, 2012). Retrieved on December 31, 2013.  ^  West Thumb Lake is not to be confused with West Thumb Geyser Basin. The caldera created West Thumb Lake, and the underlying Yellowstone hotspot keeps West Thumb Geyser Basin active. See Fig. 22  Archived June 10, 2013, at the Wayback Machine .. See also File:Yellowstone Caldera map2.JPG .  ^  Newhall, Christopher G.; Dzurisin, Daniel (1988) Historical Unrest at Large Calderas of the World : U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1855  ^  This qualitative statement is easily verified by reviewing the Yellowstone area in Google Earth  ^  "Origin and evolution of silicic magmatism at Yellowstone"  (PDF) . University of Oregon .   ^  "Secrets of supervolcanoes"  (PDF) . University of Oregon .   ^  "Introduction to hydrothermal (steam) explosions in Yellowstone" . Yellowstone National Park . Yellowstone Net . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  Witze, Alexandra (2013). "Large magma reservoir gets bigger". Nature . doi : 10.1038/nature.2013.14036 .   ^  "USGS: Volcano Hazards Program – Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Featured Articles Archive" . Retrieved April 4, 2014 .   ^  Foulger, Gillian (February 8, 2006). "Yellowstone" . MantlePlumes.org . Retrieved February 10, 2008 .   ^  Christiansen, Robert L.; Foulger, G.R.; Evans, John R. (2002). "Upper-mantle origin of the Yellowstone hotspot". Geological Society of America Bulletin . 114 (10): 1245–1256. Bibcode : 2002GSAB..114.1245C . doi : 10.1130/0016-7606(2002)114<1245:UMOOTY>2.0.CO;2 .   ^  See list of off-line references in mantleplumes.org/CRB.html  ^  Ivanov, Alexei V. (February 7, 2007). "The Columbia River Flood Basalts: Consequence of subduction-related processes" . MantlePlumes.org . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Yellowstone National Park Earthquake listings" . Retrieved April 20, 2013 .   ^  "Yellowstone Earthquake Swarms" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . Retrieved January 1, 2009 .   ^ a  b  "January 2010 Yellowstone Seismicity Summary" . Retrieved February 1, 2010 .   ^  "Archive of Yellowstone Updates for 2009" .   ^  "UUSS Webicorder (Seismogram) at Lake for December 31, 2008" . Retrieved January 1, 2009 .   ^  Johnson, Kirk (January 31, 2010). "Hundreds of Quakes Are Rattling Yellowstone" . The New York Times . Retrieved January 23, 2014 .   ^  Zuckerman, Laura. "Yellowstone National Park rattled by largest earthquake in 34 years" . Reuters . Retrieved March 31, 2014 .   Gedeon, Jacqueline (31 March 2014). "4.8 magnitude earthquake hits Yellowstone National Park" . KECI . Montana . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   ^  Zachos, Elaina (21 February 2018). "Earthquake Swarms Are Shaking Yellowstone's Supervolcano. Here's What That Means" . National Geographic . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   Bartels, Meghan (20 February 2018). "Yellowstone Supervolcano Earthquake Swarm Hits 200 Shakes In Less Than Two Weeks" . Newsweek . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   ^  "Undine Falls, Lava Creek, Yellowstone National Park" . United States Geological Survey . Retrieved January 2, 2009 .   ^  John Timmer (November 8, 2007). "Yellowstone recharges" . arstechnica.com . Retrieved November 8, 2007 .   ^  Smith, Robert B.; Chang, Wu-Lung; Siegel, Lee (November 8, 2007). "Yellowstone rising: Volcano inflating with molten rock at record rate" . University of Utah Public Relations (Press release). EurekAlert! (American Association for the Advancement of Science).   ^  Molten Rock Fills Yellowstone Volcano at Record Rate Newswise, Retrieved on September 2, 2008.  ^  "Recent ups and downs of the Yellowstone Caldera" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey. September 28, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  Smith, Robert B.; Jordan, Michael; Steinberger, Bernhard; Puskas, Christine M.; Farrell, Jamie; Waite, Gregory P.; Husen, Stephan; Chang, Wu-Lung; O'Connell, Richard (November 20, 2009). "Geodynamics of the Yellowstone hotspot and mantle plume: Seismic and GPS imaging, kinematics and mantle flow"  (PDF) . Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research . 188 (1–3): 26–56. Bibcode : 2009JVGR..188...26S . doi : 10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2009.08.020 .   ^  Alert Archive Search . volcanoes.usgs.gov  ^  Current Alerts for U.S. Volcanoes . volcano.wr.usgs.gov  ^  GPS Station: WLWY – Data Products – Time Series Plots . unavco.org  ^  "Monitoring Upgrades Result in New Insight Into Yellowstone's Magma System" (Press release). Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (USGS). December 19, 2013 . Retrieved January 2, 2014 .   ^  Burnett, Jim (January 1, 2014). "Reactions To Yellowstone Supervolcano Study Ranged From Hysteria To Ho-Hum" . National Parks Traveller . Retrieved January 2, 2014 .   ^ a  b  Richard A. Lovett (September 20, 2012). "Yellowstone Supervolcano Discovery—Where Will It Erupt?" . National Geographic.   ^  "Frequently asked questions about recent findings at Yellowstone Lake" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey . September 11, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Tsunami linked to Yellowstone crater" . USA Today . January 14, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Quake in Alaska Changed Yellowstone Geysers" . University of Utah . May 27, 2004 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "We're About to Find Out What's Rumbling Below The Yellowstone Supervolcano" . Science Alert . Retrieved 22 May 2017 .     Further reading   Breining, Greg (2007). Super Volcano: The Ticking Time Bomb beneath Yellowstone National Park . St. Paul, MN: Voyageur Press. ISBN  978-0-7603-2925-2 . A popularized scientific look at the Yellowstone area's geological past and potential future   Vazquez, J.A.; Reid, M.R. (2002). "Time scales of magma storage and differentiation of voluminous rhyolites at Yellowstone caldera". Contributions to Mineralogy & Petrology . Wyoming. 144 (3): 274–285. Bibcode : 2002CoMP..144..274V . doi : 10.1007/s00410-002-0400-7 .   Sutherland, Wayne; Sutherland, Judy (2003). Yellowstone Farewell . Spur Ridge. A novel looking at an eruption in the Yellowstone Caldera written by a practicing Wyoming geologist . Contains a wealth of technical details on the geology of western Wyoming    External links   The Snake River Plain and the Yellowstone Hot Spot  Yellowstone Volcano Observatory   FAQ relating to the supervolcano    Supervolcano documentary from BBC  Interactive: When Yellowstone Explodes from National Geographic  Canales, Manuel; Chung, Daisy; Santamarina, Daniela; Paniagua, Ronald; Preppernau, Charles; Canellas, Hernan; Umentum, Andrew; Conant, Eve; Sickley, Theodore A. (May 2016). "Inside Yellowstone's Supervolcano" . National Geographic . National Geographic Society.   The Yellowstone magmatic system from the mantle plume to the upper crust (46,000 km3 magma reservoir below chamber)        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yellowstone_Caldera&oldid=834314392 "  Categories : Yellowstone Caldera Landforms of Park County, Wyoming Landforms of Teton County, Wyoming Landforms of Yellowstone National Park Active volcanoes Supervolcanoes Extinction events Complex volcanoes Hotspot volcanoes VEI-8 volcanoes Volcanism of Wyoming Volcanism of Idaho Volcanoes of Wyoming Volcanoes of Idaho Calderas of the United States Snake River Potentially active volcanoes Yellowstone hotspot Climate forcing agents Geological hazards Hidden categories: Articles using GVP links in vnum format Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia semi-protected pages Use mdy dates from April 2014 Coordinates on Wikidata      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read View source View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      In other projects    Wikimedia Commons      Languages    العربية Asturianu Беларуская Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Македонски Nederlands Norsk Polski Português Română Русский සිංහල Simple English Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 5 April 2018, at 01:36.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                      USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Supervolcanoes  What is a supervolcano?    The term "supervolcano" implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the 
Volcano Explosivity Index ( VEI ), meaning 
the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). 
The VEI scale was created as a general 
measurement of the explosivity of an eruption. There are multiple characteristics used to give an 
eruption its VEI allowing for the 
classification of current and historic eruptions. The most common criteria are volume of ejecta ( ash , pumice , lava ) and column height. 
All VEI 8 eruptions occurred tens of thousands to millions of years ago making the volume of 
ejecta or 
deposits the best method for 
classification. An eruption is classified as a VEI 8 if the measured volume of deposits is greater 
than 
1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic 
miles). Therefore a supervolcano is a volcano that at one point in time erupted more than 1,000 
cubic 
kilometers of deposits. 
Yellowstone, like many other supervolcanoes, has also had much smaller eruptions. The cartoon 
shows 
a comparison of eruption sizes, 
including the three largest from Yellowstone. Click on the image for a more detailed description 
and 
larger view.  What are some other examples of supervolcanoes?  Volcanoes that produced exceedingly voluminous pyroclastic eruptions and formed large calderas 
in the 
past 2 million years would include 
Yellowstone, Long Valley in eastern California, Toba in Indonesia, and Taupo in New Zealand. 
Other 
"supervolcanoes" would likely include 
the large caldera volcanoes of Japan, Indonesia, and South America. The most recent 
supervolcanic 
eruption on Earth occurred 27,000 years 
ago at Taupo located at the center of New Zealand's north island.  I read that scientists couldn't find the Yellowstone caldera until they looked at a photo of 
Yellowstone from space. Is this 
true?  Not according to Bob Christiansen. Bob is the USGS scientist who delineated the three Yellowstone 
calderas and told the world about the 
great eruptions that formed them. Bob reports that he traced out the caldera boundaries through 
old 
fashioned field work... walking 
around with a hammer and hand lens and looking carefully at the rocks and their distributions. 
Most of 
the key observations were made in 
the 1960s and 1970s. Several authors have written that these large calderas were discovered from 
space 
and we suspect that the rumor 
probably got started because initial field work that delineated them was partly funded by NASA. 
The 
idea was to compare well-constrained 
geologic maps with images taken from space. So Bob's geologic map was used to verify the NASA 
images, not the other way around.  In 2005, BBC and 
the Discovery 
Channel produced a docudrama and documentary about 
Yellowstone called Supervolcano . Below, Yellowstone Volcano Observatory scientists 
answer 
questions that arose after this program 
aired that relate to supervolcanoes, volcanic hazards, and Yellowstone.  The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera -forming 
eruption at 
Yellowstone.  The scale of the 
portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 
million 
years ago.  The movie is realistic 
insofar as depicting what could happen if an eruption of this magnitude were to occur again.  
Although 
the drama is set in the future, it 
does an acceptable job of addressing some of the issues scientists would grapple with if 
Yellowstone 
showed signs of an impending 
eruption. The questions and answers below shed light on issues related to volcanism at 
Yellowstone. A 
much more detailed discussion, 
including full-color illustrations, can be found in the 
U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 
about Yellowstone's activity .   QUESTION:  What is the chance of another catastrophic volcanic eruption at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Although it is possible, scientists are not convinced that there will ever be another 
catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone.  
Given Yellowstone's past history, the yearly probability of another caldera -forming eruption can be approximated as 1 in 730,000 or 
0.00014%.  However, this number is based simply on averaging the two intervals between the 
three 
major past eruptions at Yellowstone 
— this is hardly enough to make a critical judgment.  This probability is roughly similar to 
that of 
a large (1 kilometer) asteroid 
hitting the Earth. Moreover, catastrophic geologic events are neither regular nor predictable.   QUESTION:  What would happen if a "supervolcano" eruption occurred again at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Such a giant eruption would have regional effects such as falling ash and short-
term 
(years to decades) changes to global 
climate.  The surrounding states of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming would be affected, as well as 
other 
places in the United States and the 
world.  Such eruptions usually form calderas, broad volcanic depressions created as the ground 
surface 
collapses as a result of 
withdrawal of partially molten rock ( magma ) below.  Fortunately, the chances of this sort of 
eruption at 
Yellowstone are exceedingly 
small in the next few thousands of years.   QUESTION:  Is Yellowstone monitored for volcanic activity?  ANSWER:  Yes.  The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership between the United 
States Geological Survey (USGS), 
Yellowstone National Park, and the University of Utah, closely monitors volcanic activity at 
Yellowstone.  
The YVO website features real-
time 
data for earthquakes , ground deformation , stream flow, and selected stream temperatures.  In addition, YVO scientists 
collaborate 
with scientists from around the 
world to study the Yellowstone volcano.   QUESTION:  Do scientists know if a catastrophic eruption is currently imminent at 
Yellowstone?  ANSWER: There is no evidence that a catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone is imminent, and 
such 
events are unlikely to occur in the 
next few centuries. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava .   QUESTION:  How far in advance could scientists predict an eruption of the Yellowstone 
volcano?  ANSWER: The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the 
past 25 
years. Most scientists think that 
the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months 
to 
years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions 
include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to 
weeks 
before an actual eruption. 
Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) closely monitor the Yellowstone region 
for such 
precursors.  They expect that the 
buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background 
levels) 
at multiple spots within the 
Yellowstone volcano.  As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes , ground 
uplift 
and subsidence, and gas releases at 
Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.   QUESTION:  Can you release some of the pressure at Yellowstone by drilling into the volcano?  ANSWER:  No. Scientists agree that drilling into a volcano would be of
questionable usefulness. Notwithstanding the enormous expense and technological
difficulties in drilling through hot, mushy rock, drilling is unlikely
to have much effect. At near magmatic temperatures and pressures, any hole would rapidly 
become 
sealed by minerals crystallizing from the 
natural fluids that are present at those depths.   QUESTION:  Could the Yellowstone volcano have an eruption that is not catastrophic?  ANSWER:  Yes.  Over the past 640,000 years since the last giant eruption at Yellowstone, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive 
eruptions have occurred and produced primarily lava flows. This would be the most likely kind of 
future 
eruption. If such an event were 
to occur today, there would be much disruption of activities in Yellowstone National Park, but in 
all 
likelihood few lives would be 
threatened.  The most recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone 
Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.   QUESTION:  Because Yellowstone is so geologically active, are there other potential geologic 
hazards in Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  The heat and geologic forces fueling the massive Yellowstone volcano affect the park in 
many 
ways.  Yellowstone's many geysers, 
hotsprings, steam vents , and mudpots are evidence of the heat and geologic forces. These 
hydrothermal 
(hot water) features are mostly 
benign, but can rarely be the sites of violent steam explosions and pose a hydrothermal hazard. Earthquakes , another example of active 
geologic forces, are quite common in Yellowstone, with 1,000 to 3,000 occurring annually. Most 
of 
these are quite small, although 
significant earthquakes have shaken Yellowstone, such as the 1959 magnitude 7.5 Hebgen Lake 
quake, 
the largest historical earthquake in 
the intermountain region, and the 1975 magnitude 6.1 quake near Norris Geyser Basin. The many 
earthquakes and steam explosions in the 
past 10,000 years at Yellowstone have not led to volcanic eruptions.       Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2015-08-21 08:05:03                                       share        Trending         Science  #WhoaScience            Science  #WhoaScience   Aug 31, 2017 @ 03:42 PM           Here Are The Odds Of You Seeing A Supervolcano Erupt In Your Lifetime                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Robin Andrews    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.             Is it me, or are supervolcanic eruptions heard of and never seen? Thankfully, I suppose, this remains the case in modern society. Although this is a popular science term rather than a truly technical one - it was popularized by the BBC awhile back - it's rather useful as a way of describing utterly catastrophic periods of volcanism, either those emitted over an extremely long time period or short, sharp paroxysms that unleash city-sized amounts of volcanic debris on the wider world.  If we focus on the more traditional, explosive definition of a supereruption, then that means that there have been 42 in the last 36 million years alone that have topped the Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI), an imperfect scale that measures eruptions largely based on volcanic output, rather than actual energy released. VEI 8 events produce more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of volcanic matter, enough to completely fill Lake Tahoe up more than six-and-a-half times.         Hot lava flows down the Mount Sinabung volcano in the night in Karo, North Sumatra on July 30, 2017. (TIBTA PANGIN/AFP/Getty Images)      Life on Earth has long been affected by such spectacular outbursts - not really because of the actual eruption itself, but because of the resulting climate change. Volcanoes, across geological timescales, release both greenhouse gases and/or sunlight-blocking aerosols; they have successfully frozen and boiled the world several times .    Now, with all this epic imagery splashed across your screen, you may find it difficult to actually envision what such an apocalyptic event may have physically looked and felt like. That brings us to the crux of this thought process; will any people alive today witness a volcanic supereruption?  Although it’s a crude measure, you could say that, based on all those VEI 8s, one supereruption takes place every 857,142 years or so. Modern humans have only been around for about 350,000 years or so, so it looks like it’s fairly unlikely that we may ever see one in our lifetime. Take Yellowstone’s supervolcano, for example: according to the USGS, there’s a mere one-in-730,000 chance this year alone that it will empty out its colossal magma supply onto the surface. Ho hum – no end of civilization for us.   Funnily enough, thanks to us serendipitously popping up on the evolutionary tapestry at the right time, humans have seen a supervolcanic eruption before. Although several eruptions could partly qualify as being epic enough and voluminous enough to fall into the niche category of human-viewed supereruptions, only one truly fits the bill: that of Toba, which rocked what is now Indonesia 73,000 years ago.  Toba was a true monster . Its eruption produced a crater 100 kilometers long and produced at least 2,800 cubic kilometers of volcanic debris, much of which blasted upwards in a volcanic plume at least twice the height of Mount Everest. By the week’s end, the entirety of South Asia was smothered by an ash layer 15 centimeters deep. It even unleashed so much sunlight-blocking aerosols that some studies suggest the planet enduring a six-year-long volcanic winter, although this is proving difficult to confirm.  Until recently, it was thought that although humans would have certainly been affected by this eruption to some degree, they probably wouldn’t have actually seen it. However, a brand-new piece of research had something to say about that.         Lake Toba, the flooded crater produced by the supervolcanic eruption 73,000 years ago, seen today. (Shutterstock)      Back in the late 19 th Century, Dutch archaeologist, Eugène Dubois found some teeth in a cave by the name of Lida Ajer, on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. They were seen as novelties at the time but weren’t thoroughly studied. A new team of Australian researchers, who had followed a mysterious trail of human tools all the way up from that desert continent to the volcanic archipelago, used contemporary dating techniques on these teeth and found that they were up to 73,000 years old . Comparisons with other primates confirmed that the teeth also belonged to modern humans, which makes them the oldest human remains in the region.  That means that there’s a very good chance that humans arrived in Indonesia just as Toba decided to blow its top . They would have been greeted by an image of the end of days; a grim sky-high fire that choked their lungs and smothered their new home. It’s something that they, and only they, have witnessed in the entirety of human history.  Sure – one day, people will most likely be around to witness yet another supervolcanic eruption. It will likely be several tens or hundreds of thousands of years before it happens, but there’s a slim chance it could happen tomorrow – unfortunately, the rarer the eruption type, the harder it is to predict when the next one will be.  If you’re keen to have a front seat at the fireworks show, I’d suggest eschewing Yellowstone and going to Naples instead, which sits atop Campi Flegrei, Italy’s supervolcano. It’s ever-so-slightly more likely to go off than Yellowstone, and I hear that the food in that part of the world is better than anything you’ll find in Wyoming. No offense.                 Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                    Explore Follow Science History share this The Chances Yellowstone's Supervolcano Will Erupt in Your Lifetime Are Slim Don't panic. By Yasmin Tayag on October 12, 2017 Filed Under Answers , Geology , Natural Disasters & Rock A colossal, active supervolcano lies beneath the surface of Yellowstone National Park , fueling the piping hot springs and geysers that attract some 3.8 million visitors each year. Potential guests may think twice about their next visit, though, especially after reading recent headlines suggesting that the supervolcano may blow at any minute. Fortunately, such claims are far from the truth. In their study, the team examined minerals left behind in the fossilized ash from the supervolcano’s last mega-eruption, which happened 631,000 years ago. At that time, it spat out 240 cubic miles worth of rock and ash and created what’s now known as the Yellowstone caldera and the Lava Creek Tuff, which is where the team collected samples for their analysis. The two eruptions before that, which took place sometime in the last 2 million years, each created the two other calderas found in the park. Movement of new magma into the volcano system is thought to have triggered the last eruption in a matter of decades. Those alarming stories are based on the work that researchers at Arizona State University presented at a volcanology conference in Portland, Oregon, in August. While they didn’t find that Yellowstone’s supervolcano was going to erupt anytime soon, they did find that the chain of events that triggers an eruption moves along much more quickly than was once believed. Article continues below The revolution will not be televised. It'll be sent to your inbox by us. Sign up for our newsletter: sign up “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” said Hannah Shamloo, a graduate student at Arizona State University and co-author on the study, in an interview with the New York Times on Tuesday. The history of Yellowstone's eruptions and the calderas that they formed. The crystals they dug up were a record of the timing of those previous eruptions and the geological events — like the movement of magma into the volcano — that led up to them. Scientists used to think that once one of these events happened, the effects would take several millennia to manifest into an actual eruption. But the crystals, which chronicled changes in temperature, pressure, and water in the magma in which they formed in their different layers, suggested that those changes can happen in a matter of decades. In the case of the supervolcano’s last explosion, they note, the analysis shows the eruption process was triggered when new magma moved into the volcano just decades before. But everything is relative, and what seems rapid in geologic timescales is painfully slow for humans — likely too slow for any living human to really be concerned about. Even if Yellowstone’s supervolcano gets a sudden injection of new magma the way it did 630,000 years ago, we would, according to this study, have several decades to prepare. And, because the volcano is one of the most closely monitored volcanoes in the world, we would definitely know if that happened. According to scientists at the United States Geological Survey, Yellowstone’s history puts the yearly probability of another caldera-forming eruption as one in 730,000 , or 0.00014 percent — odds that are, they note, roughly similar to that of a large (1 kilometer) asteroid hitting the Earth. The odds of a U.S. nuclear war with North Korea, according to the August estimate from retired Navy Adm. James Stavridis, meanwhile, are 10 percent . You've read that, now watch this: "Evolution Has Made Our Faces Less Punchable" Photos via National Parks Service, USGS, Jim Trodel/Flickr Written by Yasmin Tayag More articles by Yasmin • Twitter tweet share Why Cats "Chirp" and "Chatter": Science Explains the... LSD Gives Congenitally Blind 'Rock Star' Synesthesia... "Zombie Raccoons" are Invading Because the Trash Pan... Africa May Be Splitting into Two Continents Thanks t... Man Assumed 30-Pound Tumor Removed From His Stomach ... Scientists Discover the Holy Trinity of Orgasmic Sex... LSD Study Shows Unprecedented "Harmonic" Reorganizat... Neanderthals Were Capable of "Turbo Breathing" to Su... Follow inverse on Facebook Follow humans+ on Facebook Follow star wars on Facebook Follow science & chill on Facebook Follow inverse on Flipboard Follow inverse on Apple News Sign up for our newsletter sign up About Advertise Archive Browse Privacy Commerce Terms DMCA 2018 Science Innovation Entertainment Culture Mind & Body Brave New Worlds » Brave New Worlds Humans+ » Humans+ Life in Space » Life in Space Point B » Point B Replicant » Replicant Science & Chill » Science & Chill About Advertise Archive Browse Privacy Commerce Terms DMCA 2018        Skip to global NPS navigation  Skip to park navigation  Skip to main content  Skip to park information  Skip to footer             National Park Service Logo  National Park Service        Search      This Site  All NPS         Search       Open Menu             Explore This Park   Park Home    Plan Your Visit    Take the Yellowstone Pledge    Chinese    Czech    French    German    Italian    Japanese    Korean    Russian    Spanish      Basic Information    Operating Hours & Seasons    Seasonal Highlights    Summer in Yellowstone    Winter in Yellowstone      Fees & Passes    Academic Fee Waivers      Current Conditions    Backcountry Situation Report    Canyon Area Construction    Current Geyser Activity      Permits & Reservations    Film, Photography & Sound Recording    Weddings & Other Ceremonies    Public Assemblies & First Amendment Activities    Commercial Travel    Ash Scattering      Weather    Pets    FAQs    Park Facts    Visitation Statistics      Regulations    Backcountry Regulations      Goods & Services    Stores & Gift Shops        Directions & Transportation    Park Roads    Maps    Latitude, Longitude & UTMs      Eating & Sleeping    Lodging    Camping    Bridge Bay Campground    Canyon Campground    Fishing Bridge RV Park    Grant Village Campground    Indian Creek Campground    Lewis Lake Campground    Madison Campground    Mammoth Hot Springs Campground    Norris Campground    Pebble Creek Campground    Slough Creek Campground    Tower Fall Campground      Picnicking    Restaurants      Places To Go    Visitor Centers    Albright Visitor Center    Canyon Visitor Education Center    Old Faithful Visitor Education Center      Canyon Village Area    Canyon Village Area FAQs      Fishing Bridge, Lake Village, and Bridge Bay Areas    Visitor Centers and Museums    Fishing Bridge and Lake Village FAQs      Madison and West Yellowstone Area    Madison and West Yellowstone FAQs      Mammoth Hot Springs Area    More Area Highlights    Mammoth Hot Springs Area FAQs      Norris Area    Norris FAQs      Old Faithful Area    More Old Faithful Area Highlights    Old Faithful Area FAQs      Tower-Roosevelt Area    Tower-Roosevelt Area FAQs      West Thumb and Grant Village Area    West Thumb and Grant Village FAQs        Things To Do    Backcountry Camping    Allowed Bear-Resistant Food Storage Containers    Winter Backcountry Camping      Bicycling    Spring & Fall Bicycling      Boating    Clean, Drain & Dry      Day Hiking    Day Hiking Guides      Fishing    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northwest    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southwest    Fishing Season Dates      Horseback Riding    Day Ride Permits    Coggins Test    Exotic Plants -- Don't Let Them Ride With You    Stock Packing Regulations      Photography    Ranger Programs    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches    Snowmobile Access Program    Snowmobile Access Program Logistics & Regulations    New BAT Snowmobile List    Snowmobile Rentals      Wildlife Viewing    Guided Tours    Backpacking    Bicycling    Boating    Day Hiking    Fishing    Painting & Photography    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Stock Outfitters    Transportation        Calendar    Safety    Bear Safety    A Bear Doesn't Care Campaign    Bear Management Areas    Bear Spray    Camping in Bear Country    Hiking in Bear Country    Reacting to a Bear Encounter    Tips for Watching Roadside Bears      Backcountry Safety      Accessibility    Wheelchairs & Mobility    Accessible Lodging    Backcountry Accessibility    Segway® Personal Transporters & Similar Vehicles    Canyon Village & Grand Canyon Accessibilty    Fishing Bridge, Lake, Bridge Bay Accessibility    Grant Village & West Thumb Accessibility    Madison & West Yellowstone Accessibility    Mammoth Hot Springs Accessibility    Norris Geyser Basin & Area Accessibility    Old Faithful Accessibility    Tower Area Accessibility      Visual    Service Animals      Nearby Attractions    Brochures    Apps    Translated Visitor Information    Wildlife & Science Publications        Learn About the Park    News    Social Media    Instameets      Park Newspaper    News Releases      Photos & Multimedia    Photo Gallery    Visitor Activities    Lakes and Ponds    Canyons and Rivers    Campground Photos    Lodging Photos    Skies    Thermal Features    Vegetation    Waterfalls    Weather    Wildlife      Sounds    1610 AM    Audio Postcards    Orientation Audio - Chinese    Sound Library    Telemetry      Videos    Yellowstone In Depth    Minute Out In It    Q&A;    Inside Yellowstone    Video Library    Visiting Yellowstone    Wildlife Safety      Virtual Tours    Interactive Features    Webcams    Webcam FAQs        History & Culture    History Publications    Park History    Timeline of Human History in Yellowstone    The Earliest Humans    Historic Tribes    European Americans Arrive    Expeditions Explore Yellowstone    Birth of a National Park    Early Visitors    World War II through the 1960s    Modern Management    Historic Wildlife Observations    More Information      Preserving Cultural Resources    Archeology    Ethnography    Cultural Landscapes      Places    Lake Hotel    Lamar Buffalo Ranch    Mammoth Hot Springs    Fort Yellowstone    Old Faithful Area      Collections    Archives    Museum Collection    HRC Blog    Research Library    Historian    Historic Vehicle Collection      FAQs      Nature    Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem    Influence of Geology    Air Quality    Soundscapes    Water    Cycles and Processes    Winter Ecology    Beyond Boundaries    Land Use    Wilderness    Winter Use    Dark Skies      Climate Change    Changes in Yellowstone Climate    Examining the Evidence in Yellowstone    Global Climate Change      Geology    Volcano    Hydrothermal Systems    Hydrothermal Features    Yellowstone Lake Geology    Earthquakes    Glaciers    Sedimentation and Erosion    Fossils      Wildlife    Amphibians    Birds    Fish and Aquatic Species    Mammals    Reptiles    Report a Sighting    Rescuing Wildlife      Life in Extreme Heat    Thermophilic Archaea    Thermophilic Bacteria    Thermophilic Eukarya    Thermophilic Viruses    Thermophilic Communities    Thermophiles in Time and Space      Plants    Forests    Sagebrush-steppe    Wetlands    Hydrothermal Plant Communities    Wildflowers    Ross's Bentgrass    Yellowstone Sand Verbena    Yellowstone Sulphur Flower    Invasive Plants    Restoring Native Plants    Herbarium      Fire    Fire Information Continued    Fire History    Ecological Consequences of Fire    Fire FAQs    Fire References    1988 Fires        Science & Research    Fisheries & Aquatic Sciences Program    Preparing For Restoration    Yellowstone Fish Reports      Research    History of Science in Yellowstone    Research Permit Office      Yellowstone Science    YS 25(1) Conservation of Native Fish    Issues Index    Submission Guidelines      Biennial Scientific Conferences    13th Biennial Conference: Building on the Past, Leading into the Future    13th Biennial Conference Keynote Speakers    13th Biennial Conference Sponsors & Partners    12th Biennial Conference: Crossing Borders        Education    Expedition Yellowstone    Curriculum Supplements      Parks as Classrooms    Curriculum Materials    Field Trips    Institutes & Field Schools      Distance Learning      Kids & Youth    Park Fun From Anywhere    National Park Service Centennial    Coloring Book    Wildlife Olympics    Animal Alphabet Book: ABCDE    Predict Old Faithful      Every Kid In Park: Visiting Yellowstone    Be A Junior Ranger    Wildlife Olympics    Let's Move Outside Junior Ranger      Become A Young Scientist      Management    Our Staff & Offices    Concessions Management    Resource Education and Youth Programs    Resource and Visitor Protection    Yellowstone Center for Resources      Yellowstone's Biosphere & World Heritage Designations    Laws & Policies    Superintendent's Compendium    Transporting Carcasses Through Yellowstone    Guidance for Protecting Yellowstone    Yellowstone National Park Protection Act (1872)    National Park Service Organic Act (1916)    Environmental Laws    Cultural Resource Laws      Bison Management    A History of Bison Management    Questions & Answers About Bison Management    Bison Articles & Publications      Fire Management    Wildfire Smoke & Air Quality    Current Fire Activity    Fire Information Blog    Wildland Fire Program        Bookstore    Resources and Issues      Get Involved    Partners    Donate    Volunteer    Work With Us    Youth Conservation Corps      Do Business With Us    CUA Application Questions    Commercial Use Authorization Payments    Authorized Service Catagories    CUA Guided Stream & Shoreline Fishing Operating Plan    CUA Guided Painting & Photography Operating Plan    CUA Guided Backcountry Trips Operating Plan    CUA Guided Biking Operating Plan    CUA Guided Hiking Operating Plan    CUA Guided NonMotorized Operating Plan    CUA Guided Motorized Operating Plan      Commercial Use Authorization Plan      Planning    Summer Use    Transportation & Vehicle Mobility Study    Visitor Use Study      Winter Use    Current Management and Planning    Winter Use Adaptive Management Program    Winter Use: Management & Planning Archive    A Place of Winter Magic & Vulnerability    Winter Use: A Timeline    Winter Use: The Role & Future of Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches        Sustainability    Conservation Measures    Strategic Plan for Sustainability    Introduction    Categories for Achieving Sustainability                              Yellowstone   National Park  ID, MT, WY                       Park Home    Plan Your Visit    Take the Yellowstone Pledge    Chinese    Czech    French    German    Italian    Japanese    Korean    Russian    Spanish      Basic Information    Operating Hours & Seasons    Seasonal Highlights    Summer in Yellowstone    Winter in Yellowstone      Fees & Passes    Academic Fee Waivers      Current Conditions    Backcountry Situation Report    Canyon Area Construction    Current Geyser Activity      Permits & Reservations    Film, Photography & Sound Recording    Weddings & Other Ceremonies    Public Assemblies & First Amendment Activities    Commercial Travel    Ash Scattering      Weather    Pets    FAQs    Park Facts    Visitation Statistics      Regulations    Backcountry Regulations      Goods & Services    Stores & Gift Shops        Directions & Transportation    Park Roads    Maps    Latitude, Longitude & UTMs      Eating & Sleeping    Lodging    Camping    Bridge Bay Campground    Canyon Campground    Fishing Bridge RV Park    Grant Village Campground    Indian Creek Campground    Lewis Lake Campground    Madison Campground    Mammoth Hot Springs Campground    Norris Campground    Pebble Creek Campground    Slough Creek Campground    Tower Fall Campground      Picnicking    Restaurants      Places To Go    Visitor Centers    Albright Visitor Center    Canyon Visitor Education Center    Old Faithful Visitor Education Center      Canyon Village Area    Canyon Village Area FAQs      Fishing Bridge, Lake Village, and Bridge Bay Areas    Visitor Centers and Museums    Fishing Bridge and Lake Village FAQs      Madison and West Yellowstone Area    Madison and West Yellowstone FAQs      Mammoth Hot Springs Area    More Area Highlights    Mammoth Hot Springs Area FAQs      Norris Area    Norris FAQs      Old Faithful Area    More Old Faithful Area Highlights    Old Faithful Area FAQs      Tower-Roosevelt Area    Tower-Roosevelt Area FAQs      West Thumb and Grant Village Area    West Thumb and Grant Village FAQs        Things To Do    Backcountry Camping    Allowed Bear-Resistant Food Storage Containers    Winter Backcountry Camping      Bicycling    Spring & Fall Bicycling      Boating    Clean, Drain & Dry      Day Hiking    Day Hiking Guides      Fishing    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northwest    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southwest    Fishing Season Dates      Horseback Riding    Day Ride Permits    Coggins Test    Exotic Plants -- Don't Let Them Ride With You    Stock Packing Regulations      Photography    Ranger Programs    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches    Snowmobile Access Program    Snowmobile Access Program Logistics & Regulations    New BAT Snowmobile List    Snowmobile Rentals      Wildlife Viewing    Guided Tours    Backpacking    Bicycling    Boating    Day Hiking    Fishing    Painting & Photography    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Stock Outfitters    Transportation        Calendar    Safety    Bear Safety    A Bear Doesn't Care Campaign    Bear Management Areas    Bear Spray    Camping in Bear Country    Hiking in Bear Country    Reacting to a Bear Encounter    Tips for Watching Roadside Bears      Backcountry Safety      Accessibility    Wheelchairs & Mobility    Accessible Lodging    Backcountry Accessibility    Segway® Personal Transporters & Similar Vehicles    Canyon Village & Grand Canyon Accessibilty    Fishing Bridge, Lake, Bridge Bay Accessibility    Grant Village & West Thumb Accessibility    Madison & West Yellowstone Accessibility    Mammoth Hot Springs Accessibility    Norris Geyser Basin & Area Accessibility    Old Faithful Accessibility    Tower Area Accessibility      Visual    Service Animals      Nearby Attractions    Brochures    Apps    Translated Visitor Information    Wildlife & Science Publications        Learn About the Park    News    Social Media    Instameets      Park Newspaper    News Releases      Photos & Multimedia    Photo Gallery    Visitor Activities    Lakes and Ponds    Canyons and Rivers    Campground Photos    Lodging Photos    Skies    Thermal Features    Vegetation    Waterfalls    Weather    Wildlife      Sounds    1610 AM    Audio Postcards    Orientation Audio - Chinese    Sound Library    Telemetry      Videos    Yellowstone In Depth    Minute Out In It    Q&A;    Inside Yellowstone    Video Library    Visiting Yellowstone    Wildlife Safety      Virtual Tours    Interactive Features    Webcams    Webcam FAQs        History & Culture    History Publications    Park History    Timeline of Human History in Yellowstone    The Earliest Humans    Historic Tribes    European Americans Arrive    Expeditions Explore Yellowstone    Birth of a National Park    Early Visitors    World War II through the 1960s    Modern Management    Historic Wildlife Observations    More Information      Preserving Cultural Resources    Archeology    Ethnography    Cultural Landscapes      Places    Lake Hotel    Lamar Buffalo Ranch    Mammoth Hot Springs    Fort Yellowstone    Old Faithful Area      Collections    Archives    Museum Collection    HRC Blog    Research Library    Historian    Historic Vehicle Collection      FAQs      Nature    Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem    Influence of Geology    Air Quality    Soundscapes    Water    Cycles and Processes    Winter Ecology    Beyond Boundaries    Land Use    Wilderness    Winter Use    Dark Skies      Climate Change    Changes in Yellowstone Climate    Examining the Evidence in Yellowstone    Global Climate Change      Geology    Volcano    Hydrothermal Systems    Hydrothermal Features    Yellowstone Lake Geology    Earthquakes    Glaciers    Sedimentation and Erosion    Fossils      Wildlife    Amphibians    Birds    Fish and Aquatic Species    Mammals    Reptiles    Report a Sighting    Rescuing Wildlife      Life in Extreme Heat    Thermophilic Archaea    Thermophilic Bacteria    Thermophilic Eukarya    Thermophilic Viruses    Thermophilic Communities    Thermophiles in Time and Space      Plants    Forests    Sagebrush-steppe    Wetlands    Hydrothermal Plant Communities    Wildflowers    Ross's Bentgrass    Yellowstone Sand Verbena    Yellowstone Sulphur Flower    Invasive Plants    Restoring Native Plants    Herbarium      Fire    Fire Information Continued    Fire History    Ecological Consequences of Fire    Fire FAQs    Fire References    1988 Fires        Science & Research    Fisheries & Aquatic Sciences Program    Preparing For Restoration    Yellowstone Fish Reports      Research    History of Science in Yellowstone    Research Permit Office      Yellowstone Science    YS 25(1) Conservation of Native Fish    Issues Index    Submission Guidelines      Biennial Scientific Conferences    13th Biennial Conference: Building on the Past, Leading into the Future    13th Biennial Conference Keynote Speakers    13th Biennial Conference Sponsors & Partners    12th Biennial Conference: Crossing Borders        Education    Expedition Yellowstone    Curriculum Supplements      Parks as Classrooms    Curriculum Materials    Field Trips    Institutes & Field Schools      Distance Learning      Kids & Youth    Park Fun From Anywhere    National Park Service Centennial    Coloring Book    Wildlife Olympics    Animal Alphabet Book: ABCDE    Predict Old Faithful      Every Kid In Park: Visiting Yellowstone    Be A Junior Ranger    Wildlife Olympics    Let's Move Outside Junior Ranger      Become A Young Scientist      Management    Our Staff & Offices    Concessions Management    Resource Education and Youth Programs    Resource and Visitor Protection    Yellowstone Center for Resources      Yellowstone's Biosphere & World Heritage Designations    Laws & Policies    Superintendent's Compendium    Transporting Carcasses Through Yellowstone    Guidance for Protecting Yellowstone    Yellowstone National Park Protection Act (1872)    National Park Service Organic Act (1916)    Environmental Laws    Cultural Resource Laws      Bison Management    A History of Bison Management    Questions & Answers About Bison Management    Bison Articles & Publications      Fire Management    Wildfire Smoke & Air Quality    Current Fire Activity    Fire Information Blog    Wildland Fire Program        Bookstore    Resources and Issues      Get Involved    Partners    Donate    Volunteer    Work With Us    Youth Conservation Corps      Do Business With Us    CUA Application Questions    Commercial Use Authorization Payments    Authorized Service Catagories    CUA Guided Stream & Shoreline Fishing Operating Plan    CUA Guided Painting & Photography Operating Plan    CUA Guided Backcountry Trips Operating Plan    CUA Guided Biking Operating Plan    CUA Guided Hiking Operating Plan    CUA Guided NonMotorized Operating Plan    CUA Guided Motorized Operating Plan      Commercial Use Authorization Plan      Planning    Summer Use    Transportation & Vehicle Mobility Study    Visitor Use Study      Winter Use    Current Management and Planning    Winter Use Adaptive Management Program    Winter Use: Management & Planning Archive    A Place of Winter Magic & Vulnerability    Winter Use: A Timeline    Winter Use: The Role & Future of Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches        Sustainability    Conservation Measures    Strategic Plan for Sustainability    Introduction    Categories for Achieving Sustainability                       Info       Alerts        Maps       Calendar       Reserve                   Alerts In Effect  Dismiss                 ×  Contact Us                             Explore This Park    Learn About the Park    Nature    Geology    Volcano    Volcano FAQs                   Yellowstone Volcano: Frequently Asked Questions         Evidence of volcanic activity can be found throughout Yellowstone. Tuff Cliff, for example, reveals an ash flow welded into rock. NPS / Neal Herbert        Is Yellowstone a volcano?  Yes. Within the past two million years, episodic volcanic eruptions have occurred in the Yellowstone area—three of them major.  What is the caldera shown on the park map? The Yellowstone Caldera was created by a massive volcanic eruption approximately 640,000 years ago. Subsequent lava flows filled in much of the caldera, and it is now measured at 30 x 45 miles. Its rim can best be seen from the Washburn Hot Springs overlook, south of Dunraven Pass. Gibbon Falls, Lewis Falls, Lake Butte, and Flat Mountain Arm of Yellowstone Lake are part of the rim.  When did the Yellowstone volcano last erupt? An eruption approximately 174,000 years ago created what is now the West Thumb of Yellowstone Lake. The last lava flow was about 70,000 years ago.  Is the volcano still active? Yes. The park’s many hydrothermal features attest to the heat still beneath this area. Earthquakes—1,000 to 3,000 per year—also reveal activity below ground. The University of Utah Seismograph Station tracks this activity closely.  What is Yellowstone National Park doing to prevent an eruption? Nothing can be done to prevent an eruption. The temperatures, pressures, physical characteristics of partially molten rock, and immensity of the magma chamber are beyond human ability to impact—much less control.  What is a supervolcano? Some scientists consider Yellowstone to be a "supervolcano," which refers to volcano capable of an eruption of more than 240 cubic miles of magma. Two of Yellowstone’s three major eruptions met the criteria.  Will the Yellowstone volcano erupt soon? Current geologic activity at Yellowstone has remained relatively constant since scientists first started monitoring more than 30 years ago. Another caldera-forming eruption is theoretically possible, but it is very unlikely in the next thousand or even 10,000 years. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava.  How do scientists know the Yellowstone volcano won't erupt? Scientists from the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) watch an array of monitors in place throughout the region. These monitors would detect sudden or strong movements or shifts in heat that would indicate increasing activity. No such evidence exists at this time. In addition, YVO scientists collaborate with scientists from all over the world to study the hazards of the Yellowstone volcano. To view current data about earthquakes, ground movement, and stream flow visit the YVO website .  If Old Faithful Geyser quits, is that a sign the volcano is about to erupt? All geysers are highly dynamic, including Old Faithful. We expect Old Faithful to change in response to the ongoing geologic processes associated with mineral deposition and earthquakes. Thus, a change in Old Faithful Geyser will not necessarily indicate a change in volcanic activity.  How much advance notice would there be of an eruption? The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the past 25 years. Most scientists think that the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months to years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to weeks before an actual eruption. Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory closely monitor the Yellowstone region for such precursors. They expect that the buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background levels) at multiple spots within the Yellowstone volcano. As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes, ground uplift and subsidence, and gas releases at Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.  In regard to volcanic activity, is it safe to visit Yellowstone? Yes. Scientists do not have any indication of an imminent eruption, or any eruption, at this time.  When will the volcano erupt again? Will there be any warning? How much warning will there be? The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the past 25 years. Most scientists think that the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months to years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to weeks before an actual eruption. Scientists at the YVO closely monitor the Yellowstone region for such precursors. They expect that the buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background levels) at multiple spots within the Yellowstone volcano. As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes, ground uplift and subsidence, and gas releases at Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.  How will the park get the word out if there is an eruption? The park would communicate accurate and timely information to park visitors, park employees, concessioners, surrounding communities, media outlets, and other interested parties through the park's 24-hour Communications Center; news releases; established emergency response programs; and through notification of appropriate interagency, state and local government agencies.  Where would it be safe to be during an eruption? For the most likely type of volcanic eruption in Yellowstone, everywhere would be safe except in the immediate vicinity of the advancing lava flow. In the highly improbable event of a large catastrophic eruption, the greater the distance from the eruptive center, the safer it would be. It is impossible to know the effects of the eruption without guessing at the explosivity of the highly unlikely eruption and the total amount of the material erupted.  Would the public know about a possible eruption? Yes. Scientists continuously monitor volcano activity in Yellowstone and share that information through news releases, web sites, etc. Current real-time-monitoring data are online .  Where can I see volcanic flows?   Sheepeater Cliff: columnar basalt  Obsidian Cliff: lava  Virginia Cascades: ash flow  Gibbon Falls: Near caldera rim  Tuff Cliff: ash flow  West Entrance Road, Mt. Haynes and Mt. Jackson: columnar rhyolite  Lava Creek tuff 7. Firehole Canyon: lava  Lewis Falls: Near caldera rim  Lake Butte: On edge of caldera, overall view of caldera  Washburn Hot Springs Overlook: overall view of caldera  Between Tower Fall and Tower Junction: columnar basalt        More Information   What Lies Beneath: Yellowstone's Volcano and Geologic Story . The story begins long before the "supervolcano."  Video Q&A : Dr. Henry Heasler answers common questions about the Yellowstone volcano.   Yellowstone Volcano Observatory  Old Faithful Geyser Webcam   Watch the Inside Yellowstone episodes about the volcano (approx. 2 min. each)                Last updated: September 21, 2017             Contact the Park    Mailing Address:    P.O. Box 168   Yellowstone National Park , WY  82190-0168      Phone:  (307) 344-7381   Contact Us         Tools    FAQ    Site Index    Español         Stay Connected    Facebook    Twitter    Instagram    Youtube    Flickr    More                        Search    This Site  All NPS                 National Park Service  U.S. Department of the Interior       National Park Service Logo          Accessibility  Privacy Policy  FOIA  Notices  Disclaimer    FAQ  No Fear Act  Contact Us  USA.gov        Facebook    Facebook        Youtube    Youtube        Twitter    Twitter        Instagram    Instagram        Flickr    Flickr        iTunes    iTunes                                                             Yellowstone Supervolcano Could Erupt Sooner Than We Thought. Here’s What You Need to Know.                                     Subscribe                 Home    Subscribe                                   40 Under 40    100 Best Companies to Work For    Fortune 500    Global 500    50 Most Powerful Women in Business    World's 50 Greatest Leaders    World's Most Admired Companies    All Rankings        Automotive    Careers    Design    Energy & Environment    Executive Travel    Finance    Commentary    Health    International    Leadership    Luxury    Markets    Most Powerful Women    Retail    Sports    Technology    The Ledger    Venture    Photography    Podcasts    Newsletters    Magazine    Fortune Knowledge Group    Fortune Data Store    Fortune Conferences    TIME Health        Digital Health    Discovering Luxury    Innovation By Design    Looking Forward    State of the Market    MPW Mentorship    The 21st Century Corporation    Mastering the Market        Subscribe    Give a Gift    Customer Service      Stay Connected                                                                               Travel      yellowstone        Yellowstone Supervolcano Could Erupt Sooner Than We Thought. Here’s What You Need to Know.                                                          *** EXCLUSIVE ***
                
                YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, WY - MAY 2016: The contrast spectrum of colours in one of the Yellowstone pools, taken in May 2016, in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, United States.
                
                WITNESSING the beautiful spectrum of colours in Yellowstone National Park springs, you could almost forget youre standing on a supervolcano way past its eruption due date. The extraterrestrial-looking mineral-rich pools are caused by bacteria and thermophiles growing around the edges, creating the striking colours. The heat from three super eruptions thousands of years ago still powers the parks geysers, hot springs, fumaroles and mud pots, indicating how frighteningly active this volcano is directly under visitors feet.
                
                PHOTOGRAPH BY Russell Pearson / Barcroft Images 
                
                London-T:+44 207 033 1031 E:hello@barcroftmedia.com -
                New York-T:+1 212 796 2458 E:hello@barcroftusa.com -
                New Delhi-T:+91 11 4053 2429 E:hello@barcroftindia.com www.barcroftmedia.com (Photo credit should read Russell Pearson /Barcroft Images / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)  Barcroft Media via Getty Images        By Grace Donnelly  October 12, 2017       Did you know there’s a supervolcano in Yellowstone National Park? Maybe you’ve heard that it could erupt with much less advance warning than expected ?  Researchers from Arizona State University spent weeks studying fossilized ash deposits from the Yellowstone volcano and recently shared their findings. The minerals in these deposits revealed that the critical changes in temperature and composition preceding an eruption build up over a matter of decades , rather than thousands of years as scientists originally thought.  “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” Hannah Shamloo, a graduate student at Arizona State University who worked on the research, told The New York Times .  This is an alarming thing for a volcanologist to say. The good news is that scientists are likely just decades away from being able to more accurately predict when an eruption would occur.      Sometimes knowing more about the world around us makes us feel more in control of our lives and survival. And sometimes knowing more only underscores how small and helpless we are compared to the forces of nature on the angry rock where we reside.  Here are some more facts about supervolcanoes that may or may not make you feel any better.  Is Yellowstone the only supervolcano to worry about?  No, of course not. There are about 20 others around the world and three others, besides the Yellowstone supervolcano, in the U.S. Scientists suspect that one of them erupts every 100,000 years or so .  While Yellowstone hasn’t had a super-eruption in 631,000 years, others have been active more recently. Campi Flegri , a supervolcano in Italy whose name translates to “burning fields,” had a super-eruption 15,000 years ago.    Campi Flegri is in a “critical state,” according to researchers in Italy. It’s due for an eruption soon, but it would be a minor event compared to the 72 cubic miles of molten rock it spewed in its most notorious eruption 39,000 years ago, called Campanian Ignimbrite, that likely contributed to the extinction of the Neanderthals .  What areas would a Yellowstone eruption affect?  If the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts, it could shoot out more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of rock and ash into the air .  That’s 250 cubic miles. That’s more than three times as large as the Campanian Ignimbrite eruption in Italy, which created a sulfurous cloud that floated more than 1,200 miles away to hang over Russia . That’s 2,500 times more material than Mount St. Helens expelled in 1980, killing 57 people.      An eruption at Yellowstone would result in a cloud of ash more than 500 miles wide , stretching across nearly the entire western United States.  The explosion could be so incredibly large that it could plunge the entire planet into a volcanic winter . That means it would be impossible to grow crops and current food stores would only last about 74 days, according to a 2012 estimate by the United Nations (though innovations in farming may mean that food could be grown underground).  Will a supervolcano eruption end life on Earth?  None of this sounds ideal, but how does it rank in terms of apocalyptic near-future possibilities? According to NASA, supervolcano eruptions are a bigger danger to life on Earth than any asteroid.  Luckily NASA has a plan to neutralize supervolcano threats . It would cost approximately $3.4 billion and involves drilling down just over 6 miles into the volcano in order to release heat and hopefully avoid a violent eruption.      This plan could cool the supervolcano over the course of hundreds or even thousands of years. There’s another bonus: It would become a source of geothermal energy, too. But there are considerable risks, too. It could trigger the eruption it’s meant to save us from.  How likely is it that the Yellowstone supervolcano will erupt?  Despite the fact that this new research shows conditions leading up to supervolcano eruption could occur in several decades, the chances that you will personally experience an explosion of this scale are still low.  The odds of the Yellowstone supervolcano erupting within a given year are one in 730,000, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Here’s a little perspective: Those odds are significantly better than your chances of winning the lottery and only slightly worse than the chance you’ll be struck by lightning .                  SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT        You May Like                      Stories From      Read More      Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up now to receive FORTUNE's best content, special offers, and much more.    SUBSCRIBE                       EDIT POST                                 Subscribe & Save  Subscribe today and save 79% off the cover price.    SUBSCRIBE NOW                  Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up now to receive FORTUNE's best content, special offers, and much more.    SUBSCRIBE                                         40 Under 40  100 Best Companies to Work For  Fortune 500  Global 500  Most Powerful Women in Business  World's 50 Greatest Leaders  World's Most Admired Companies  All Rankings       Home  Automotive  Careers  Design  Energy & Environment  Executive Travel  Finance  Commentary       Health  International  Leadership  Luxury  Markets  Most Powerful Women  Retail  Sports       Technology  The Ledger  Venture  Photography  Podcasts  Videos  Newsletters  Magazine       Fortune Knowledge Group  Fortune Data Store  Fortune Conferences  TIME Health  Customer Service  Site Map  Privacy Policy  Advertising       Subscribe  Give a Gift  Ad Choices  Terms of Use  Your California Privacy Rights  Time Inc. Careers     © 2018 Time Inc. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy ( Your California Privacy Rights ). Fortune may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Interactive Data . ETF and Mutual Fund data provided by Morningstar , Inc. Dow Jones Terms & Conditions: http://www.djindexes.com/mdsidx/html/tandc/indexestandcs.html . S&P; Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions .                                                                         Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express.         Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter                 Login    Register          Apps  Puzzles  Horoscopes  Shop  Paper      14 °C         HOME   News    Showbiz & TV    Sport    Comment    Finance    Travel    Entertainment    Life & Style      UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries   Home News Science Yellowstone about to blow? Scientists warning over SUPER-VOLCANO that could kill MILLIONS                Yellowstone about to blow? Scientists warning over SUPER-VOLCANO that could kill MILLIONS  SCIENTISTS have warned the world is in "volcano season" and there is up to a 10% chance of an eruption soon killing millions of people and devastating the planet.    By Jon Austin  Jon Austin     PUBLISHED:  13:05, Thu, Mar 31, 2016  | UPDATED: 22:38, Thu, Mar 31, 2016            GETTY Volcanoes are the biggest threat to human survival, claim scientists Instances of volcanic eruptions are their highest for 300 years and scientists fear a major one that could kill millions and devastate the planet is a real possibility. Experts at the European Science Foundation said volcanoes – especially super-volcanoes like the one at Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, which has a caldera measuring 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km) - pose more threat to Earth and the survival of humans than asteroids, earthquakes, nuclear war and global warming. There are few real contingency plans in place to deal with the ticking time bomb, which they conclude is likely to go off within the next 80 years.       The world's most dangerous active volcanoes include Yellowstone, Mount Vesuvius in Campagnia, Italy, and Popocatépetl i near Mexico City. If any of them or other massive volcanic peaks suffered a major eruption the team said millions of people would die and earth’s atmosphere would be poisoned with ash and other toxins "beyond the imagination of anything man’s activity and global warming could do over 1,000 years. The chance of such as eruption happening at one of the major volcanoes within 80 years is put at five to ten per cent by the experts.   Related articles       First view of mega asteroid so BIG 'it could trigger EARTHQUAKES'...       Multiple 'MEGA EARTHQUAKES' could strike ANY DAY putting millions...     GETTY Yellowstone does not appear like many volcanoes but is believed to have the most magma underneath   Related articles       Magma reservoir under Yellowstone National Park 'one of world's...       ENORMOUS supervolcano the size of Yellowstone found on Mars     There are already fears that Yellowstone could blow any time within the next 70 years on a scale that would wiped out the western USA and affect the course of global history. The report - “Extreme Geo-hazards: Reducing the Disaster Risk and Increasing Resilience,” warns global government's preparations for such happenings are virtually non-existent. It said: "Although in the last few decades earthquakes have been the main cause of fatalities and damage, the main global risk is large volcanic eruptions that are less frequent but far more impactfull than the largest earthquakes. “Due to their far-reaching effects on climate, food security, transportation, and supply chains, these events have the potential to trigger global disaster and catastrophe. "The cost of response and the ability to respond to these events is beyond the financial and political capabilities of any individual country.”     Yellowstone super volcano in pictures  Wed, February 14, 2018  The volcano at Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming and Montana sits atop a huge reserve of magma and last erupted 640,000 years ago          Play slideshow        Getty Images   1 of 18    Belgian Pool, hot spring in the Upper Geyser Basin of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming                      Related articles       'Cigar-shaped' UFO spotted hovering over erupting Mexican volcano       REVEALED: Pluto's 3.5-mile high ice volcano that means dwarf...                                         Latest videos        Ant McPartlin news: Ant’s wife Lisa Armstrong likes cryptic post hinting at reunion         EastEnders: BBC continuity announcer leaves fans in hysterics with Phil and Mel remark         Britain’s Got Talent 2018: Amanda Holden and Alesha Dixon bring back seriously racy frocks         Royal baby: Bookies odds put THIS girl's name as favourite         Cheryl Cole and Liam Payne: Star ‘wants another baby’ to ’get relationship back on track’                                   Stonehenge SHOCK: Monument 'PRE-DATES humans' says archaeologist          God Particle will eventually DESTROY the universe - physicists in Doomsday claim          Yellowstone volcano eruption update: How volcano is 40,000 years OVERDUE an eruption          Disturbing child-size sex robot reduces BBC presenter to tears in SHOCKING footage          LIFE ON MARS: European spacecraft poised for groundbreaking Red Planet mission          Antarctic voyage aims to find Endurance, Shackleton's lost ship, miles beneath the waves          Jupiter in pictures: NASA’s Juno spacecraft captures stunning image of gas giant          Jupiter’s Triangle: How to see Jupiter’s Triangle in April night sky          Earthquake strikes US: California, Oklahoma, Texas and Nebraska hit in quick succession          Solar Storm WARNING: Solar flare to blast Earth with intense radiation TODAY      Daily Express                    SEARCH          CONNECT WITH US    Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter    Check us on Google+    Subscribe to our rss feed      TODAY'S PAPER       Tuesday, 10th April 2018  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
                    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
                    newspaper archive.          News    UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries        Latest News    Brexit  European Union  Theresa May  Angela Merkel  Donald Trump  The Queen  Kate Middleton  Meghan Markle  Diesel  Cancer  Diabetes  Dementia  YouTube      Showbiz & TV    TV & Radio  Celebrity News        Sport    Football  Stats  Transfer news  Premier League  Manchester United  Liverpool  Arsenal  Chelsea  Tottenham Hotspur  Manchester City  West Ham  Everton  Celtic  Rangers  Golf  F1  Boxing  Tennis  UFC  Cricket  Rugby Union  Racing        Pictures    Pics  Celebrity Galleries  Royal Galleries  Sport Galleries      Comment    Express Comment  Columnists  Beachcomber      Finance    City & Business  Personal Finance  The Crusader  Retirement      Travel    Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News      Entertainment    Films  Gaming  Theatre  Books  Music  Puzzles        Life & Style    Life  Style  Health  Cars  Garden  Food  Property  Diets  Tech  Saturday  Win  S Mag  Top 10 Facts      EXPRESS.CO.UK    Sitemap  Site Archive  Contact Us  Report a Tech Issue  Advertising  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Terms & Conditions  Developed by Netro42  Syndication and Licensing  Clarifications and Corrections          Daily Star    OK! Magazine    new! Magazine    Star Magazine    Copyright ©2018 Express Newspapers.
            "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.                                                        Chill. Yellowstone's Volcano Isn't About to Destroy Us All Sign In Subscribe business culture gear ideas science security transportation photo video backchannel Search business culture gear ideas science security transportation photo video backchannel Sign In Photo Video Backchannel Magazine Wired Insider Get Our Newsletter WIRED’s biggest stories delivered to your inbox. submit Author: Erik Klemetti Erik Klemetti science 01.11.16 02:13 pm Chill. Yellowstone's Volcano Isn't About to Destroy Us All Old faithful geyser. Richard Mitchell/Getty Images Share share tweet comment email It seems like every year about now, the media decides it is time for yet another Yellowstone scare-mongering session . Over the past few weeks, a number of articles and interviews have made some outlandish claims about the chances of a massive Yellowstone eruption. Yet, all this kerfuffle has come with absolutely no change in the state of Yellowstone itself. Instead, this tempest is purely the product of media " churnalism " that turns very benign source material into panic, doom, and horror. This time around, the Yellowstone noise is loosely based on a disaster preparedness report from the European Science Foundation. The study, called Extreme Geohazards: Reducing the Disaster Risk and Increasing Resilience , isn't new scientific research but rather a position paper that makes the bold claim that "hey, wouldn't it be great if we even thought about being prepared for a large volcanic eruption?" It isn't even solely focused on volcanoes, but makes the point that large volcanic eruptions—the same size or larger than the 1815 eruption of Tambora —are potentially a larger threat to lives and property than we give them credit. Yet somehow, this simple study has been distorted. Many articles claim the scientists are announcing that Yellowstone will erupt at any moment and we're all doomed and yada yada yada. The articles say things like " the earth is actually in “volcano season,” * *(nope), that " volcanic eruptions have occurred at their highest rate in 300 years " (again, nope), that " super-volcanoes could erupt within the next 80 years ." (They could. And the Browns might win the Super Bowl, too.) In my mind, the most egregious claim is that "scientists predict that the Yellowstone volcano will erupt within 70 years." That last statement, in itself, is very telling. Never are the scientists named in any of these articles. Never is that statement linked back to an actual source. No self-respecting volcanologist would ever say such a thing—and, more importantly, the geologists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory have never, ever even implied such a thing. So, is it in the actual ESF study? Well, I did some digging and found the following: The number of times Yellowstone is mentioned in the 70+ page report: 2 (once for the date of its last massive eruption and once in the reference list for that date). The number of times report talks about an impending Yellowstone eruption in the next 70 years: zero. none. never. The number of times report even mentions the idea of a major Tambora or worse eruption definitely happening in next 70 years: absolutely nowhere . What about the notion that the Earth is in a supposed "volcano season" with more eruptions in the last 300 years? The number of references to "volcano season"? Z____ero . The report very briefly discusses the idea of a "flareup", where there may be an increase in very large eruptions in different parts of the world but (a) we're not in one and (b) there is no indication we are headed towards one. Flareups are separated by millions or tens of millions of years. Even if it is the case, "volcano season" as a hypothesis claims that during certain seasons of the year, there may be slightly more eruptions—and there is very little agreement that such a thing actually exists . It does not mean we are in any period of heightened activity (and we're not). The number of times the study says there are more eruptions now? None. So, where did these completely wrong ideas arise? My guess is that we're seeing the results of the internet's massive game of telephone, in which some of the earlier (mostly terrible) articles about the ESF study tried to tie it into Yellowstone and "volcano season." Somehow, we got to the point where all the subsequent articles parroted and distorted the those early articles and the people writing those article couldn't be bothered to read , or even peruse, the actual source material. Physicist Michio Kaku even showed up on Fox News to spread more scaremongering with wrong/misleading information. I mean, could we really not find any volcanologist or geologist to intelligently discuss the study or Yellowstone's chance of activity? The laziness of current media science coverage means we get shoddy reporting, inappropriate "experts" and spreading of nothing but false or misleading information. Where does this leave us? Well, as I have mentioned before about Yellowstone , you should rarely trust any reports about an impending eruption of Yellowstone, unless it is coming from the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . Right now, the chances of a massive Yellowstone caldera eruption within the next century are infinitesimally small. Even if any eruption at Yellowstone were to happen, it is much more likely to be small eruption , maybe on the scale of Mount St. Helens in 1980. Currently, there are no signs, no evidence, nothing to suggest any eruption is in the works. Even the study that says there is a lot of magma under Yellowstone (and there is) also adds that it is less eruptible magma . In all, Yellowstone is a pretty quiet place. It definitely wouldn't appear in my list of the top 10 volcanoes likely to erupt in the next century. Heck, it likely wouldn't even be in my top 100. That 5 to 10 percent chance of a major eruption somewhere in the world is based on looking at how often we've had Tambora-scale or larger eruptions. This means that it could happen next week or not for 300 years. The probability is low: 90 percent of the time, no eruption Tambora-scale or bigger occurs. If you want to be concerned about the hazards posed by a volcano in the near term, there are a lot better candidates out there . The media loves to make a big deal that if a Tambora or greater happens, civilization would end and chaos would ensue. Well, even in the 1800s, when Tambora caused the " Year Without a Summer ," civilization survived. Even with our more interconnected planet and a larger population population, you need to remember that really, as a society, we are also more resilient. We can absorb disasters as materials and foods can be transported easily, medicine exists to stop the disease that can follow an eruption and technology allows us to better understand if an eruption is going to occur—thus, we can prepare. Society can survive catastrophes, but media wants us to think otherwise. So, has the status of a potential eruption at Yellowstone changed?__ No.__ Should you live in fear of Yellowstone? No. Should you be prepared for natural disasters ?__ Yes. __That's the real key. The ESF study's main point is that we need to think now about these volcanic hazards. We need to invest now in monitoring infrastructure so we can carefully look for clues that an eruption might be in the works. What it doesn't say is that volcanic armageddon is around the corner—and don't let the media try to convince you otherwise. #Indonesia #volcanoes #Yellowstone Most Popular gear 4 Best Smartphones of 2018: Guide to Android, Samsung Galaxy, iPhone Author: Jeffrey Van Camp Jeffrey Van Camp gear How to Check If Cambridge Analytica Could Access Your Facebook Data Author: Brian Barrett Brian Barrett transportation Porsche's 919 Hybrid Evo Wallops F1's Fastest Cars Author: Jack Stewart Jack Stewart More Stories View Comments Sponsored Stories Powered By Outbrain Megan Molteni With Some Structure, Stem Cells Might Still Stop Vision Loss Adam Rogers Too Much Engineering Has Made Mississippi River Floods Worse Sarah Scoles The Woman Who Knows Everything About the Universe Stephen Wolfram *2001: A Space Odyssey* Predicted the Future—50 Years Ago Matt Simon Why These Bumblebees Are Wearing Itty-Bitty QR Codes More science Math What Random Walks in Multiple Dimensions Teach You About Life Author: Rhett Allain Rhett Allain Genetics Helix Takes Clinical Genetic Testing Straight to Consumers Author: Megan Molteni Megan Molteni NASA Inside the Cleanroom Where the Mars Lander Preps for Launch Author: Matt Simon Matt Simon Thought Experiments New Brain Maps With Unmatched Detail May Change Neuroscience Author: Monique Brouillette Monique Brouillette gallery The Case of the Missing Dark Matter Author: Shannon Stirone Shannon Stirone Math Why Winning in Rock-Paper-Scissors Isn’t Everything Author: Patrick Honner Patrick Honner We Recommend Powered By Outbrain Adam Rogers A Month's Worth of Rain Will Hit California This Weekend Robbie Gonzalez A Brain-Boosting Prosthesis Moves From Rats to Humans Eric Niiler From AI to Russia, Here’s How Estonia’s President Is Planning for the Future Rhett Allain Do You Weigh More at the Equator or at the North Pole? Marcello Rossi Will a Huge New Flood Barrier Save Venice? Get Our Newsletter WIRED’s biggest stories delivered to your inbox. submit Subscribe Advertise Site Map Press Center FAQ Accessibility Help Customer Care Contact Us Securedrop T-Shirt Collection Newsletter Wired Staff Jobs RSS CNMN Collection Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (effective 3/21/12) and privacy policy (effective 3/21/12). Affiliate link policy . Your California privacy rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast .                                                 No, Yellowstone's Supervolcano Isn't Going to Wipe Out Life on Earth Anytime Soon                           Subscribe                 U.S.    Politics    World    Tech    Time Health    Entertainment    Subscribe                                    Home    U.S.    Politics    World    Business    Tech    Health    TIME Health    Motto    Entertainment    Science    Newsfeed    Living    Sports    History    The TIME Vault    Magazine    Ideas    TIME Labs    Money    LIFE    Photography    Videos    The Goods    Shop TIME    Press Room    TIME Guide to Happiness    The 100 Most Influential People    American Voices    Finding Home    Opioids    Longevity 2017    Looking Forward    Next Generation Leaders    Person of the Year    Space 2017    Top of the World    Workarounds    Time Cover Store    TIME for KiDS    TIME Edge        Subscribe    Give a Gift    Newsletters    Feedback    Privacy Policy    Your California Privacy Rights    Terms of Use    Ad Choices    RSS    TIME Apps    Advertising    Reprints and Permissions    Site Map    Help    Customer Service      Stay Connected                                                                         U.S.      Yellowstone National Park        No, Yellowstone's Supervolcano Isn't Going to Wipe Out Life on Earth Anytime Soon                                                Magmatic heat from the volcano underneath yellow springs in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, in May.  Russell Pearson—Barcroft Images/Getty Images        By Melissa Chan  October 13, 2017       If you’re worried a supervolcano lying beneath Yellowstone National Park could erupt and plunge the planet into a volcanic winter, you shouldn’t be.  While a future eruption — a prospect widely reported this week after new research — is possible, geologists say it’s incredibly unlikely. The odds that Yellowstone’s sleeping supervolcano will erupt within a century and cause massive devastation are one in 10,000, which is about as likely as a very large asteroid hitting Earth, according to Jacob Lowenstern, a research geologist at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS).  “It’s not impossible to rule out, but it’s a remote possibility,” said Lowenstern, who used to run the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory, which monitors volcanic activity.  Supervolcanoes have the power to spew more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of debris and hot ash into the air when they erupt, which would have catastrophic consequences, including changes to global climate and agricultural devastation, according to the USGS. They get labeled supervolcanoes only after they’ve already erupted to that magnitude. There are between five and 10 active supervolcanoes in the world, Lowenstern said. The most recent supereruption happened about 27,000 years ago in New Zealand. Long before that, there were two supereruptions at Yellowstone — the first happened 2.1 million years ago and the second occurred 631,000 years ago, according to the USGS.      Many Americans grew concerned that a supereruption was looming after the New York Times detailed a project from a research team at Arizona State University. The team researched the events leading up to the last large eruption at Yellowstone. They found changes in the supervolcano’s system known to help trigger supereruptions, like magma flow, can develop faster than previously thought, according to the Times . “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” Hannah Shamloo, an ASU graduate student who was part of the research team, told the newspaper.  Many people mistakenly took that to mean Yellowstone’s supervolcano was overdue for a massive eruption. Christy Till, who was also part of the research team, later tweeted that the research team at no point suggested Yellowstone’s supervolcano was expected to erupt. “All signs of activity at Yellowstone are normal,” she wrote. “There are NO signs of eruption as some media outlets reporting.”    Lowenstern agreed, dispelling the notion that there’s a cycle to supereruptions. He added that there is no way to tell exactly when or if it will even erupt, but any kind of eruption in the next 100 years is very unlikely.  Since the last supereruption at Yellowstone, there have been dozens of other eruptions at the national park that were minor. “There’s no requirement that it has to have another large eruption,” Lowenstern said.                        SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT        You May Like                      Stories From      Read More      Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more    SUBSCRIBE                       EDIT POST                                 Subscribe & Save  Subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price.    SUBSCRIBE NOW                  Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more    SUBSCRIBE                                     Home  U.S.  Politics  World  Business  Tech  Health  Science       Entertainment  Newsfeed  Living  Ideas  Parents  Sports  History  The TIME Vault       Magazine  Subscribe  Give a Gift  Time Cover Store  TIME for KiDS  TIME Edge  The Goods  Press Room  Shop TIME  Newsletters       Customer Service  Site Map  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Terms of Use  Advertising  Ad Choices  Careers     © 2017 Time Inc. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy ( Your California Privacy Rights ). TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.       This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Supervolcanoes  Yellowstone National Park  Volcanoes  Risk and Risks Volcanoes: What is the probability of the Yellowstone supervolcano erupting in the next 10 years? http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/technology-science/science/supervolcano-under-yellowstone-could-leave-854457 Update Cancel Answer Wiki 4 Answers   Zac Shaw , Music's Biggest Fan / Digital Polymath Answered Jan 13, 2012 The world's leading scientists would not be able to answer this question with any certainty. Even estimating the probability of a Yellowstone eruption is something of a shot in the dark because when we talk about geological events we're talking on a timeline stretching millions and billions of years. However, we can make some broad estimates, and based on those estimates, there is reason to believe that an eruption in the next 10 years is more possible now that it was in the entire history of human civilization. This is because scientists have estimated that the Yellowstone Caldera erupts roughly every 640,000 years. The last three major eruptions were 2.1 million, 1.3 million and just over 640,000 years ago respectively. When I say "roughly", the margin of error is tens of thousands of years. Therefore, while we are technically "overdue" for a Yellowstone eruption given it's been over 640,000 years since the last one -- it's essentially just as likely it will happen tomorrow as 10,000 years from now. Furthermore, while there is ongoing seismic activity at the Yellowstone Caldera, scientists have not seen any major developments that hint at a large eruption. It's likely, but not certain, there would be some degree of warning detected by seismologists and volcanologists before a cataclysmic eruption. 3.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Diversyfund Investing in top performing real estate shouldn't be complicated. Create your diversified real estate investment portfolio through modern crowdfunding platform. Learn More at diversyfund.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below If a super volcano erupts in Yellowstone national park, where is the safest place to be? What can be done to prepare for the eruption of Yellowstone's supervolcano? Will the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano drive humans into extinction? Is Yellowstone's supervolcano about to erupt? How far in advance would we know? What will really happen when the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts? Ask New Question   Roger Gilmartin , Traveling the world and learning wherever I go Answered Mar 29, 2017 · Author has 3.2k answers and 2.2m answer views Just to understand terms, a “super volcanic eruption” indicates an eruption where more than 1000 cubic kilometers (250 cubic miles) of magma is involved. As such, Yellowstone has had at least three eruptions that qualify: 2.1 million years ago, 1.2 million years ago, then 640 k years ago. The Yellowstone eruption area collapsed on itself, forming the three caldera(s) that straddle the Idaho / Wyoming / Montana state lines. By comparison, Mt St Helens (which eruption I witnessed) blasted off 1.6 cubic kilometers (1 cubic mile) of material. That said, Mt St Helens was not a major volcanic eruption, in my view, compared to other eruptions within the couple of centuries (Krakatoa, Pinatubo, etc.) Another comparison, in 1815, Mt Tambora (Indonesia) underwent the largest and most deadly eruption in recorded history. That eruption (VEI 7) pumped out enormous amounts of dust and ash, killed tens of thousands of people, destroyed crops and vegetation, and even caused tsunamis. The ash cloud, circulating around the globe, caused a severe summertime cold snap in 1816, resulting in killer frosts in New England and Europe. We know that the magma still lies beneath Yellowstone. Yellowstone also sits atop a hot spot / mantle plume that still provides the heat to drive all the geo-thermal activity today. Moreover, Yellowstone has the potential to erupt (not just as a super-volcano) as “less than a super volcano” so it’s not an either-or situation. For example, regional earthquakes have altered some of the geothermal activity from time to time. It is a highly active area, that has similarities to places such as Iceland (which straddles the Mid-Atlantic Ridge) and Hawaii (which sits atop a hot spot / mantle plume). Geologic activity at Yellowstone has remained fairly constant over the last 30 years, and a “super-volcano / caldera producing event” is unlikely to occur in the next 1000 or even 10,000 years. Each of the major eruptions at Yellowstone caldera happened at least 650,000 years apart; in some cases 1 million years apart, so they are exceedingly rare. What are the actual chances that Yellowstone erupts as a less than “super-volcano” in the next ten years? Despite what the British tabloids say (after all they are trying to sell papers) the chances are “Near Zero” (not zero, but near zero). What are the actual chances that Yellowstone erupts as a full-on “super-volcano” in the next ten years? Nearer to Zero than the chances of erupting as a less-than-super-volcano. 369 Views   Dave Mcmurray , phd Life and Living, People of Canada (1943) Answered Jun 28, 2017 · Author has 183 answers and 54k answer views Oh Goody! lets see what happens when we apply Bayes theorem. Based on previous history, we know that it can erupt, so there are only two valid possibilities: Within 10 years, it will erupt—or it won’t. We really don’t know much more than that. We DO know that it has erupted more than once, and we know that it is NOT DORMANT. We also know that with only three prior events, of (loosely guessed) age, so the median frequency of these eruptions is ——unreliable. Three events do NOT form a pattern. Not without other information. We also don’t know how the current activity compares to previous eruptions, so what happens, given current activity, is completely unpredictable. . —so either possibility is equally valid. Either it will—or it won’t. With me so far? The answer to your question: What is the probability of Yellowstone (or a lot of other crap) erupting in the next year ? .500! 243 Views · View Upvoters   Matthew Bennett , Musical Adult Fan of LEGO with an interest in earthquakes Answered May 13, 2015 · Author has 204 answers and 147.8k answer views order of magnitude calculation: Yellowstone erupts every million years or so, so the probability that it would erupt in a ten year period is approximately 1/100,000, 0.00001, or 0.001% Basically, too small to worry about it. 893 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions Apart from Yellowstone, are there any other known "super-volcanoes"? Which supervolcano is likely to erupt next? If you knew with certainty that the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts in exactly 10 years, would you be able to do something? The Yellowstone volcano is going to erupt in 3 hours, what do you do? What would the US government do if they found out Yellowstone’s super volcano was going to erupt in 2 years? Is it possible to stop Yellowstone from erupting? What are the odds of the Yellowstone volcano erupting? Have scientists predicted when the Yellowstone Supervolcano will erupt? Which volcano is most likely to erupt next? If the Yellowstone super volcano were to erupt, could the US ever recover? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions If a super volcano erupts in Yellowstone national park, where is the safest place to be? What can be done to prepare for the eruption of Yellowstone's supervolcano? Will the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano drive humans into extinction? Is Yellowstone's supervolcano about to erupt? How far in advance would we know? What will really happen when the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts? Apart from Yellowstone, are there any other known "super-volcanoes"? Which supervolcano is likely to erupt next? If you knew with certainty that the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts in exactly 10 years, would you be able to do something? The Yellowstone volcano is going to erupt in 3 hours, what do you do? What would the US government do if they found out Yellowstone’s super volcano was going to erupt in 2 years? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact        USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Supervolcanoes  What is a supervolcano?    The term "supervolcano" implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the 
Volcano Explosivity Index ( VEI ), meaning 
the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). 
The VEI scale was created as a general 
measurement of the explosivity of an eruption. There are multiple characteristics used to give an 
eruption its VEI allowing for the 
classification of current and historic eruptions. The most common criteria are volume of ejecta ( ash , pumice , lava ) and column height. 
All VEI 8 eruptions occurred tens of thousands to millions of years ago making the volume of 
ejecta or 
deposits the best method for 
classification. An eruption is classified as a VEI 8 if the measured volume of deposits is greater 
than 
1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic 
miles). Therefore a supervolcano is a volcano that at one point in time erupted more than 1,000 
cubic 
kilometers of deposits. 
Yellowstone, like many other supervolcanoes, has also had much smaller eruptions. The cartoon 
shows 
a comparison of eruption sizes, 
including the three largest from Yellowstone. Click on the image for a more detailed description 
and 
larger view.  What are some other examples of supervolcanoes?  Volcanoes that produced exceedingly voluminous pyroclastic eruptions and formed large calderas 
in the 
past 2 million years would include 
Yellowstone, Long Valley in eastern California, Toba in Indonesia, and Taupo in New Zealand. 
Other 
"supervolcanoes" would likely include 
the large caldera volcanoes of Japan, Indonesia, and South America. The most recent 
supervolcanic 
eruption on Earth occurred 27,000 years 
ago at Taupo located at the center of New Zealand's north island.  I read that scientists couldn't find the Yellowstone caldera until they looked at a photo of 
Yellowstone from space. Is this 
true?  Not according to Bob Christiansen. Bob is the USGS scientist who delineated the three Yellowstone 
calderas and told the world about the 
great eruptions that formed them. Bob reports that he traced out the caldera boundaries through 
old 
fashioned field work... walking 
around with a hammer and hand lens and looking carefully at the rocks and their distributions. 
Most of 
the key observations were made in 
the 1960s and 1970s. Several authors have written that these large calderas were discovered from 
space 
and we suspect that the rumor 
probably got started because initial field work that delineated them was partly funded by NASA. 
The 
idea was to compare well-constrained 
geologic maps with images taken from space. So Bob's geologic map was used to verify the NASA 
images, not the other way around.  In 2005, BBC and 
the Discovery 
Channel produced a docudrama and documentary about 
Yellowstone called Supervolcano . Below, Yellowstone Volcano Observatory scientists 
answer 
questions that arose after this program 
aired that relate to supervolcanoes, volcanic hazards, and Yellowstone.  The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera -forming 
eruption at 
Yellowstone.  The scale of the 
portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 
million 
years ago.  The movie is realistic 
insofar as depicting what could happen if an eruption of this magnitude were to occur again.  
Although 
the drama is set in the future, it 
does an acceptable job of addressing some of the issues scientists would grapple with if 
Yellowstone 
showed signs of an impending 
eruption. The questions and answers below shed light on issues related to volcanism at 
Yellowstone. A 
much more detailed discussion, 
including full-color illustrations, can be found in the 
U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 
about Yellowstone's activity .   QUESTION:  What is the chance of another catastrophic volcanic eruption at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Although it is possible, scientists are not convinced that there will ever be another 
catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone.  
Given Yellowstone's past history, the yearly probability of another caldera -forming eruption can be approximated as 1 in 730,000 or 
0.00014%.  However, this number is based simply on averaging the two intervals between the 
three 
major past eruptions at Yellowstone 
— this is hardly enough to make a critical judgment.  This probability is roughly similar to 
that of 
a large (1 kilometer) asteroid 
hitting the Earth. Moreover, catastrophic geologic events are neither regular nor predictable.   QUESTION:  What would happen if a "supervolcano" eruption occurred again at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Such a giant eruption would have regional effects such as falling ash and short-
term 
(years to decades) changes to global 
climate.  The surrounding states of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming would be affected, as well as 
other 
places in the United States and the 
world.  Such eruptions usually form calderas, broad volcanic depressions created as the ground 
surface 
collapses as a result of 
withdrawal of partially molten rock ( magma ) below.  Fortunately, the chances of this sort of 
eruption at 
Yellowstone are exceedingly 
small in the next few thousands of years.   QUESTION:  Is Yellowstone monitored for volcanic activity?  ANSWER:  Yes.  The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership between the United 
States Geological Survey (USGS), 
Yellowstone National Park, and the University of Utah, closely monitors volcanic activity at 
Yellowstone.  
The YVO website features real-
time 
data for earthquakes , ground deformation , stream flow, and selected stream temperatures.  In addition, YVO scientists 
collaborate 
with scientists from around the 
world to study the Yellowstone volcano.   QUESTION:  Do scientists know if a catastrophic eruption is currently imminent at 
Yellowstone?  ANSWER: There is no evidence that a catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone is imminent, and 
such 
events are unlikely to occur in the 
next few centuries. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava .   QUESTION:  How far in advance could scientists predict an eruption of the Yellowstone 
volcano?  ANSWER: The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the 
past 25 
years. Most scientists think that 
the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months 
to 
years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions 
include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to 
weeks 
before an actual eruption. 
Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) closely monitor the Yellowstone region 
for such 
precursors.  They expect that the 
buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background 
levels) 
at multiple spots within the 
Yellowstone volcano.  As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes , ground 
uplift 
and subsidence, and gas releases at 
Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.   QUESTION:  Can you release some of the pressure at Yellowstone by drilling into the volcano?  ANSWER:  No. Scientists agree that drilling into a volcano would be of
questionable usefulness. Notwithstanding the enormous expense and technological
difficulties in drilling through hot, mushy rock, drilling is unlikely
to have much effect. At near magmatic temperatures and pressures, any hole would rapidly 
become 
sealed by minerals crystallizing from the 
natural fluids that are present at those depths.   QUESTION:  Could the Yellowstone volcano have an eruption that is not catastrophic?  ANSWER:  Yes.  Over the past 640,000 years since the last giant eruption at Yellowstone, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive 
eruptions have occurred and produced primarily lava flows. This would be the most likely kind of 
future 
eruption. If such an event were 
to occur today, there would be much disruption of activities in Yellowstone National Park, but in 
all 
likelihood few lives would be 
threatened.  The most recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone 
Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.   QUESTION:  Because Yellowstone is so geologically active, are there other potential geologic 
hazards in Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  The heat and geologic forces fueling the massive Yellowstone volcano affect the park in 
many 
ways.  Yellowstone's many geysers, 
hotsprings, steam vents , and mudpots are evidence of the heat and geologic forces. These 
hydrothermal 
(hot water) features are mostly 
benign, but can rarely be the sites of violent steam explosions and pose a hydrothermal hazard. Earthquakes , another example of active 
geologic forces, are quite common in Yellowstone, with 1,000 to 3,000 occurring annually. Most 
of 
these are quite small, although 
significant earthquakes have shaken Yellowstone, such as the 1959 magnitude 7.5 Hebgen Lake 
quake, 
the largest historical earthquake in 
the intermountain region, and the 1975 magnitude 6.1 quake near Norris Geyser Basin. The many 
earthquakes and steam explosions in the 
past 10,000 years at Yellowstone have not led to volcanic eruptions.       Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2015-08-21 08:05:03                                                             Log In or Sign Up     Log In    Sign Up              Explainers    Politics & Policy    World    Culture    Science & Health    Identities    Energy & Environment    The Big Idea    Technology    Business & Finance    First Person    Video    Podcasts    More                   Explainers    Politics & Policy    World    Culture    Science & Health    Identities    Energy & Environment    The Big Idea    Technology    Business & Finance    First Person    Video    Podcasts   ✕              What would happen if the Yellowstone supervolcano actually erupted?   By  Brad Plumer @bradplumer   Updated Dec 15, 2014, 10:24am EST        Share     Tweet        Share     Share  What would happen if the Yellowstone supervolcano actually erupted?      tweet     share          Reddit       Pocket         Flipboard     Email                    An aerial flight over Yellowstone’s Midway Geyser Basin in 2004 shows Grand Prismatic Spring and Excelsior Geyser Crater, which drain into the nearby Firehole River.  US Geological Survey     If the supervolcano underneath Yellowstone National Park ever had another massive eruption, it could spew ash for thousands of miles across the United States, damaging buildings, smothering crops, and shutting down power plants. It'd be a huge disaster.  A super-eruption would be horrific — though also pretty unlikely  But that doesn't mean we should all start freaking out. The odds of that happening are thankfully pretty low. The Yellowstone supervolcano — thousands of times more powerful than a regular volcano — has only had three truly enormous eruptions in history. One occurred 2.1 million years ago, one 1.3 million years ago, and one 664,000 years ago.  And despite what you sometimes hear in the press, there's no indication that we're due for another "super-eruption" anytime soon. In fact, it's even possible that Yellowstone might never have an eruption that large again.  Even so, the Yellowstone supervolcano remains an endless source of apocalyptic fascination — and it's not hard to see why. In September 2014 , a team of scientists published a paper in Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems exploring what a Yellowstone super-eruption might actually look like.  Among other things, they found the volcano was capable of burying states like Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, and Colorado in three feet of harmful volcanic ash — a mix of splintered rock and glass — and blanket the Midwest. That much ash could kill plants and animals, crush roofs, and short all sorts of electrical equipment:  Ash, ash, everywhere   An example of the possible distribution of ash from a month-long Yellowstone supereruption. (US Geological Survey)  When I called up one of the study's co-authors, Jacob Lowenstern of the US Geological Survey, he stressed that the paper was not any sort of prediction of the future. "Even if Yellowstone did erupt again, you probably wouldn't get that worst-case scenario," he says. "What's much, much more common are small eruptions — that's a point that often gets ignored in the press." (And even those small eruptions are very rare.)  Lowenstern is the Scientist-In-Charge of the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory in Menlo Park, California. So I talked to him further about what we actually know about the Yellowstone supervolcano, what its eruptions might look like, and why the odds of disaster are low.  What is the Yellowstone supervolcano?   (National Park Service)  Lurking beneath Yellowstone National Park is a reservoir of hot magma five miles deep, fed by a gigantic plume of molten rock welling up from hundreds of miles below. That heat is responsible for many of the park's famous geysers and hot springs. And as magma rises up into the chamber and cools, the ground above periodically rises and falls .  The vast, vast majority of Yellowstone eruptions are small  On rare occasions throughout history, that magma chamber has  erupted. The vast, vast majority of those eruptions in Yellowstone have been smaller lava flows — with the last occurring at Pitchstone Plateau some 70,000 years ago.  But the reason why Yellowstone gets so much attention is the remote possibility of catastrophic "super-eruptions." A super-eruption is anything that measures magnitude 8 or more on the Volcano Explosivity Index , in which at least 1,000 cubic kilometers (or 240 cubic miles) of material gets ejected. That's enough to bury Texas five feet deep.  These super-eruptions are thousands of times more powerful than even the biggest eruptions we're used to. Here's a chart from USGS comparing the Yellowstone super-eruptions with the Mt. St. Helens eruption of 1980. The difference is staggering:  Super-eruptions vs ordinary eruptions   (US Geological Survey)  Yellowstone has had three of these really massive eruptions in its history — 2.1 million years ago, 1.3 million years ago, and 664,000 years ago. The last of those , at Yellowstone Lava Creek, ejected so much material from below that it left a 34-mile-by-50-mile depression in the ground — what we see today as the Yellowstone Caldera:  Location of past Yellowstone super-eruptions     ( National Park Service )  It's worth noting that Yellowstone is hardly the only  supervolcano out there — geologists have found evidence of at least 47 super-eruptions in Earth's history. The most recent occurred in New Zealand's Lake Taupo some 26,000 years ago.  More dramatically, there was the gargantuan Toba eruption 74,000 years ago, caused by shifting tectonic plates. That triggered a dramatic 6- to 10-year global winter and (according to some) may have nearly wiped out the nascent human race .  On average, the Earth has seen roughly one super-eruption every 100,000 years, although that's not an ironclad law.  So what would a Yellowstone eruption look like?  Let's reiterate that the odds of any sort of Yellowstone eruption, big or small, are very low . But if we're speaking hypothetically…  The most likely eruption scenario in Yellowstone is a smaller event that produced lava flows (similar to what's happening at Iceland's Bárðarbunga right now ) and possible a typical volcanic explosion. This would likely be precipitated by a swarm of earthquakes in a specific region of the park as the magma made its way to the surface.  A super-eruption is capable of sending ash many thousands of miles  Now, in the unlikely event of a much bigger super-eruption, the warning signs would be much bigger. "We'd likely first see intense seismic activity across the entire park," Lowenstern says. It could take weeks or months for those earthquakes to break up the rocks above the magma before an eruption.  And what if we did get a super-eruption — an event that was 1,000 times more powerful than a regular volcanic eruption, ejected at least 240 cubic miles of material, and lasted weeks or months? The lava flows themselves would be contained within a relatively small radius within the park — say, 40 miles or so. In fact, only about one-third of the material would actually make it up into the atmosphere.  The main damage would come from volcanic ash — a combination of splintered rock and glass — that was ejected miles into the air and scattered around the country. In their new paper , Lowenstern and his colleagues looked at both historical ash deposits and advanced modeling to conclude that an eruption would create an umbrella cloud, expanding even in all directions. (This was actually a surprising finding .)  A super-eruption could conceivably bury the northern Rockies in three feet of ash — devastating large swaths of Wyoming, Idaho, Colorado, Montana, and Utah. Meanwhile, the Midwest would get a few inches of ash, while both coasts would see even smaller amounts. The exact distribution would depend on the time of year and weather patterns:  Modeling the spread of ash from a Yellowstone super-eruption   ( Mastin et al 2014 )  Any of those scenarios would be terrible news. That much volcanic ash is capable of killing people, plants, and animals and crushing buildings. Even a few inches of ash (which is what much of the country can get) can destroy farms, clog roadways, cause serious respiratory problems, block sewer lines, and even short out transformers. Air travel would have to shut down across much of North America.  An eruption that big would also cool the planet temporarily  A volcanic eruption that big would also have major effects on the global climate. Volcanoes can emit sulfur aerosols that reflect sunlight back into the atmosphere cool the climate. These particles are short-lived in the atmosphere, so the effect is only temporary, but it can still be dramatic.  When Pinatubo erupted in 1991, it cooled the planet by about 1°C (1.8°F) for a few years. The Tambora eruption in 1815 cooled the planet enough to damage crops around the world — possibly leading to famines in some areas. And those were relatively tiny eruptions compared to what a supervolcano is, in theory, capable of.  Yikes! So what are the odds of a Yellowstone super-eruption?  Very, very low. In fact, it's even possible Yellowstone might never erupt again.  'Odds are very high that Yellowstone will be eruption-free for the coming centuries'  Right now, there's no sign of a pending eruption. Yellowstone park does continue to get earthquakes, and the ground continues to rise and fall, but that's nothing out of the ordinary. "Yellowstone is behaving as it has for the past 140 years," the USGS points out . " Odds are very high that Yellowstone will be eruption-free for the coming centuries."  The USGS also notes that, if you simply took the past three eruptions, the odds of Yellowstone erupting in any given year are 0.00014 percent — lower than the odds of getting hit by a civilization-destroying asteroid . But even that's not a good estimate, since it's not at all certain that Yellowstone erupts on a regular cycle or that it's "overdue" for another eruption. In fact, there might never be a big eruption in Yellowstone again.  "The Earth will see super-eruptions in the future, but will they come in Yellowstone? That's not a sure thing," says Lowenstern. "Yellowstone's already lived a good long life. It may not even see a fourth eruption."  Volcanoes, after all, do die out. The magma chamber below Yellowstone is being affected by two opposing forces — the heat welling up from below and the relative cold from the surface. If less heat comes in from below, then the chamber could conceivably freeze, eventually turning into a solid granite body.  It's also worth noting that the volcanic hotspot underneath Yellowstone is slowly migrating to the northeast (or, more accurately, the North American tectonic plate above the hotspot is migrating southwest). You can see the migration below:  The volcanic hotspot is sloooooowly moving northeast   (USGS)  On a long enough time scale, the hotspot will move out from under Yellowstone — and the Yellowstone supervolcano would, presumably, die out. Of course, it's possible that another supervolcano could emerge further in the northeast, but the hotspot would first have to heat up and melt the cold crust first. And that process could take a million years or longer.  "It's hard to get our minds around something like a million years," Lowenstern says. "Humans are a relatively brand-new species. But Earth's been around a very long time, and these systems take a long time to do what they do."  Further reading  -- The US Geological survey has an excellent FAQ on the Yellowstone supervolcano. They also have a great rundown of the most recent paper modeling a super-eruption.  -- Here's a fascinating (and very accessible) paper Lowenstern wrote in 2006 explaining how scientists actually monitor the Yellowstone volcanic system. A key line: "One obstacle to accurate forecasting of large volcanic events is humanity's lack of familiarity with the singals leading up to the largest class of volcanic eruptions."  -- In the New Yorker , George Black wrote a fun piece about how unhinged fears (and misinformation) about the Yellowstone supervolcano keep going viral.       Next Up In  Science & Health     The US is winning the climate fight in electricity — and losing it just about everywhere else    We’re beginning to learn how moms’ antidepressants can affect fetuses    Scientists have an intriguing new theory about our eyebrows and foreheads    Senators to Trump: what ever happened to your opioid commission’s proposals?    Tribalism put Scott Pruitt in power. It may not be enough to save him.    Vitamins for your hair, nails, and skin are everywhere on Instagram. Don’t fall for them.             Most Read              The Bell Curve is about policy. And it’s wrong.   Charles Murray is an incredibly successful — and pernicious — policy entrepreneur.             Trump’s company is now threatening the president of Panama   The Trump Organization demanded that he intervene in a private business dispute — or pay the consequences.             Toe ointment, a $937 bill, and a hard truth about American health care   "My first reaction was: This is nuts. There is no relationship to the actual cost."             Scientists have an intriguing new theory about our eyebrows and foreheads   Why are eyebrows so expressive? There may be an answer in evolution.             The Sam Harris debate   Ezra and Sam Harris debate race, IQ, identity politics, and much more.                        Vox Sentences The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.       Subscribe   By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
    For more newsletters, check out our newsletters page . This Article has a component height of 66. The sidebar size is long.        The Latest            This kind of shooting happens every day in America — and we usually ignore it  By  German Lopez                 One paragraph that explains just how bad Trumpworld’s legal trouble has gotten  By  Jane Coaston                 Kellyanne Conway’s husband is subtweeting Trump  By  Jane Coaston                 9 questions about Facebook and data sharing you were too embarrassed to ask  By  Jen Kirby                 The past 24 hours of dangerous Trump-Russia news, explained  By  Zachary Fryer-Biggs                 Sinclair pundit resigns after threatening Parkland survivor David Hogg on Twitter  By  German Lopez                    Chorus      Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Communications Preferences    Contact  Send Us a Tip  Masthead  About Us    All Systems Operational Check out our status page for more details.      Vox Media  Advertise with us  Jobs @ Vox Media © 2018 Vox Media , Inc. All Rights Reserved          tweet     share     Skip to main content Access keys help Home Explore the BBC  This page has been archived and is no longer updated.  Find out more about page archiving.    17 September 2014 Accessibility help     Nature    Wildlife Finder    Science    Prehistoric Life    Human Body & Mind    Space    BBC Homepage Science & Nature Homepage   In TV & Radio follow-up :   Today's TV & radio   TV & radio programmes    Autumnwatch    Big Cat Diary    Bill Oddie Goes Wild    British Isles: A Natural History    Coast    Countryfile    Earth: The Power of the Planet    Elephant Diaries    Horizon    How to Improve Your Memory    Life in Cold Blood    Life in the Undergrowth    Life of Mammals    Life on Air    Lost Land of the Jaguar    Natural World    Orangutan Diary    Planet Earth    Saving Planet Earth    Seawatch    Secrets of the Sexes    Springwatch    Take One Museum    Tiger - Spy in the Jungle    Walking with dinosaurs    Wild China    More TV programmes    Radio programmes    Presenters    From the field   Contact Us    You are here: BBC > Science & Nature > TV & Radio Follow-up > Programmes > 
Supervolcano               page  Supervolcano  The world's biggest bang  A global disaster never witnessed by modern man may one day mushroom above the pine forests and hot springs of Yellowstone National Park in the United States.  While ordinary volcanoes can kill thousands of people and destroy entire cities, it's thought a supervolcano could claim up to a billion lives and devastate continents.    Heavy stuff: Ash from the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines settles on the tail section of a World Airways DC-10, causing it to tilt onto its rear wheels.  It's very likely a super-eruption would shutdown airports worldwide.   "A super-eruption is the world's biggest bang", says Prof. Bill McGuire of the Benfield Greig Hazard Research Centre at the University of London. "It's a volcanic explosion big enough to dwarf all others and with a reach great enough to affect everyone on the planet". Considering their destructive potential, it's a good thing super-eruptions are so rare – the last one happened in Toba, Indonesia, about 74,000 years ago. Geologists think these eruptions take place about every 50,000 years, which suggests one is overdue.  About 40 supervolcanoes are dotted across the globe. There are two in Britain – one in Glencoe, Scotland, the other in Scafell in the Lake District. However, most supervolcanoes, including those in Britain, burned out long ago.  Yellowstone, located in the western state, Wyoming, is a dormant supervolcano, which means a major eruption could happen in the future. But before you get worried, it's important to remember that most volcano experts say a Yellowstone super-eruption is probably a long way off, or it may never happen at all.   Super size: About 2.1 m years ago the Yellowstone supervolcano erupted 2,500 times more ash than Mount St Helens (pictured).  Read about the 1980 Mount St Helens eruption on BBC On This Day.   "It's far more likely, if there is an eruption, it'll be on a small scale, perhaps comparable to Mt St Helens," says volcano expert Prof. Steve Sparks of the University of Bristol.  Although they're called 'super', most people would have trouble spotting a supervolcano. Their main feature is a large magma chamber, which is an underground reservoir filled with flowing, hot rock under huge pressures.  Some stats on the Yellowstone supervolcano:  A super-eruption would equal the force of 1,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs exploding every second. You could fit Tokyo, the world's biggest city, in Yellowstone's super-volcanic crater. Three super-eruptions at Yellowstone appear to have occurred on a 600,000-700,000 year cycle starting 2.1 million years ago. The most recent took place 640,000 years ago – suggesting Yellowstone is overdue for an eruption. Continue to page two and find out how much volcanic ash it takes to collapse a roof.  The US Geological Survey has more information about the Yellowstone supervolcano.  (The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
websites.)  Back to Supervolcano homepage  page                  Elsewhere in Supervolcano        Supervolcano homepage  Supervolcano Read about the programmes.  Photo gallery See dramatic scenes from the programme and download wallpapers for your
computer.  Respond to a disaster Play a game where it's your job to handle an eruption of the fictional Mount Spur.       Elsewhere on bbc.co.uk        Horizon: Supervolcanoes Read a transcript of the programme that inspired Supervolcano.  Natural disasters Ten per cent of the world's population may live within volcanic danger zones.  Radio 4: Supervolcano Listen as Peter Evans meets scientists studying the Yellowstone supervolcano.  Mount St Helens erupts BBC On This Day has video and articles about the 1980 eruption of the famous US volcano.       Elsewhere on the web        Yellowstone Volcano Observatory The US Geological Survey has detailed information about the supervolcano.  Discovery: Supervolcano Discovery.com describes what is under Yellowstone.  Volcanoes and climate change A NASA article explaining how volcanoes change the weather.  London Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre London VAAC is one of nine international centres on the lookout for volcanic ash.  The Geological Society An in-depth study of the effects of super-eruptions.  Volcano Live Volcano news and information from expert John Seach.  Volcano World A University of North Dakota site with information about volcanoes around the world.  How Volcanoes Work A NASA sponsored site about volcano science.  What is ash? The US Geological Society explains what to do if you experience volcanic ash.  USGS photo library The US Geological Society has an extensive collection of geology photographs.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites              Science Homepage | Nature Homepage Wildlife Finder | Prehistoric Life | Human Body & Mind | Space  Go to top   About the BBC | Help | Terms of Use | Privacy & Cookies Policy         USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Yellowstone Volcanic History  When was the last time there was volcanism at Yellowstone?  The most recent volcanic activity consisted of rhyolitic  lava flows that erupted 
approximately 70,000 years ago. The largest of these flows formed the Pitchstone 
Plateau in southwestern Yellowstone National Park.  How much volcanic activity has there been at Yellowstone since the most 
recent giant eruption?  Since the most recent giant caldera -forming eruption, 640,000 years ago, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive eruptions have occurred. Of these 
eruptions, at least 27 were rhyolite  lava flows in the caldera, 13 were rhyolite 
lava flows outside the caldera and 40 were basalt  vents outside the caldera. 
Some of the eruptions were approximately the size of the devastating 1991 
Pinatubo eruption in the Philippines, and several were much larger. The most 
recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.  How often do volcanic eruptions occur at Yellowstone?  Three extremely large explosive eruptions have occurred at Yellowstone in the 
past 2.1 million years with a recurrence interval of about 600,000 to 800,000 
years. More frequent eruptions of basalt and rhyolite  lava flows have occurred 
before and after the large caldera -forming events. For example, scientists have 
identified at least 27 different rhyolite lava flows that erupted after the most 
recent caldera eruptions, about 640,000 years ago, from vents inside the 
caldera. The most recent was about 70,000 years ago. Many of these eruptions 
were separated in time by several tens of thousands of years. Because the 
evidence of earlier eruptions may have been either buried or destroyed, we do 
not really know how often the volcano has actually erupted.  What was the extent of ash deposition from the largest Yellowstone 
eruptions?   During the three giant caldera -forming eruptions that occurred between 2.1 
million and 640,000 years ago, tiny particles of volcanic debris (volcanic ash ) 
covered much of the western half of North America, likely a third of a meter 
deep several hundred kilometers from Yellowstone and several centimeters thick 
farther away. Wind carried sulfur aerosol and the lightest ash 
particles around the planet and likely caused a notable decrease in temperatures 
around the globe.   How many caldera-forming eruptions have occurred from the long-lived 
hotspot 
that is currently beneath Yellowstone?   Many eruptive units found along the path of the Yellowstone hotspot have been 
dated, but only a few of them represent large caldera -forming eruptions. At 
least five volcanic fields centered on large caldera complexes have been 
identified. Some of these caldera complexes erupted climatically more than once; 
probably 15 to 20 caldera-forming eruptions have occurred along the hotspot as 
it left a trail from western Idaho to Yellowstone within the past 16.5 million 
years.  How many giant eruptions have occurred in the Yellowstone National Park 
region and how large were they?  Volcanic activity began in the Yellowstone National Park region a little before 
about 2 million years ago. Molten rock ( magma ) rising from deep within the 
Earth produced three cataclysmic eruptions more powerful than any in the world's 
recorded history. The first caldera -forming eruption occurred about 2.1 million 
years ago. The eruptive blast removed so much magma from its subsurface storage 
reservoir that the ground above it collapsed into the magma chamber and left a 
gigantic depression in the ground- a hole larger than the state of Rhode Island. 
The huge crater, known as a caldera, measured as much as 80 kilometers long, 65 
kilometers wide, and hundreds of meters deep, extending from outside of 
Yellowstone National Park into the central area of the Park (see map in question 
above for location information).  Later, activity shifted to a smaller region within the Island Park area of 
eastern Idaho, just southwest of Yellowstone National Park, and produced another 
large caldera -forming eruption 1.3 million years ago. Subsequent activity has 
been focused within the area of the National Park, and another huge eruption 
640,000 years ago formed the Yellowstone caldera as we now see it.  The three caldera -forming eruptions, respectively, were about 6,000, 700, and 
2,500 times larger than the May 18, 1980 eruption of Mt. St. Helens in 
Washington State. Together, the three catastrophic eruptions expelled enough ash and lava to fill the Grand Canyon.  In addition to the three climactic eruptions, activity associated with each of 
the three caldera cycles produced dozens or even hundreds of smaller eruptions 
that produced both lava and pyroclastic materials.  How do the giant eruptions in the Yellowstone National Park region compare 
to other large historic eruptions?   This graphic shows that the three largest Yellowstone eruptions emitted much 
more material than the eruptions of Mount St. Helens (1980), Mount Pinatubo 
(1991), Krakatau (1883), Mount Mazama (7,600 years ago), and Tambora (1815).      Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2012-07-06 15:30:24                     Yellowstone Caldera   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search     Yellowstone Caldera     The northeastern part of Yellowstone Caldera, with the Yellowstone River flowing through Hayden Valley and the caldera rim in the distance     Highest point    Elevation  9,203 [1] ft (2,805 m)    Coordinates  44°24′N  110°42′W ﻿ / ﻿ 44.400°N 110.700°W ﻿ / 44.400; -110.700 ﻿ ( Yellowstone Caldera ) Coordinates : 44°24′N  110°42′W ﻿ / ﻿ 44.400°N 110.700°W ﻿ / 44.400; -110.700 ﻿ ( Yellowstone Caldera )     Geography    Location  Yellowstone National Park , Wyoming , United States    Parent range  Rocky Mountains    Topo map  USGS Yellowstone National Park    Geology    Age of rock  2,100,000–70,000 years [3]    Mountain type  Caldera [2] and supervolcano    Climbing    Easiest route  Hike / auto / bus    The Yellowstone Caldera is a volcanic  caldera and supervolcano in Yellowstone National Park in the Western United States , sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano . The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming . The major features of the caldera measure about 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km). [4]  The caldera formed during the last of three supereruptions over the past 2.1 million years: the Huckleberry Ridge eruption 2.1 million years ago (which created the Island Park Caldera and the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff ); the Mesa Falls eruption 1.3 million years ago (which created the Henry's Fork Caldera and the Mesa Falls Tuff ); and the Lava Creek eruption approximately 630,000 years ago (which created the Yellowstone Caldera and the Lava Creek Tuff ). [5]      Contents    1  Volcanism at Yellowstone  2  Yellowstone hotspot origin  3  Hazards   3.1  Earthquakes  3.2  Volcanoes  3.3  Hydrothermal explosions    4  See also  5  References  6  Further reading  7  External links     Volcanism at Yellowstone     Yellowstone sits on top of four overlapping calderas. (US NPS)    Volcanism at Yellowstone is relatively recent, with calderas that were created during large eruptions that took place 2.1 million, 1.3 million, and 630,000 years ago. The calderas lie over a hotspot where light, hot, magma (molten rock) from the mantle rises toward the surface. While the Yellowstone hotspot is now under the Yellowstone Plateau , it did help to create the eastern Snake River Plain (to the west of Yellowstone) through a series of huge volcanic eruptions . The hotspot appears to move across terrain in the east-northeast direction, but in fact the hotspot is much deeper than terrain and remains stationary while the North American Plate moves west-southwest over it. [6]  Over the past 18 million years or so, this hotspot has generated a succession of violent eruptions and less violent floods of basaltic lava . Together these eruptions have helped create the eastern part of the Snake River Plain from a once-mountainous region. At least a dozen of these eruptions were so massive that they are classified as supereruptions . Volcanic eruptions sometimes empty their stores of magma so swiftly that the overlying land collapses into the emptied magma chamber , forming a geographic depression called a caldera.  The oldest identified caldera remnant straddles the border near McDermitt, Nevada–Oregon , although there are volcaniclastic piles and arcuate faults that define caldera complexes more than 60 km (37 mi) in diameter in the Carmacks Group of southwest-central Yukon , Canada , which are interpreted to have formed 70 million years ago by the Yellowstone hotspot. [7] [8] Progressively younger caldera remnants, most grouped in several overlapping volcanic fields , extend from the Nevada – Oregon border through the eastern Snake River Plain and terminate in the Yellowstone Plateau. One such caldera, the Bruneau-Jarbidge caldera in southern Idaho , was formed between 10 and 12 million years ago, and the event dropped ash to a depth of one foot (30 cm) 1,000 miles (1,600 km) away in northeastern Nebraska and killed large herds of rhinoceros , camel, and other animals at Ashfall Fossil Beds State Historical Park. The United States Geological Survey ("USGS") estimates there are one or two major caldera-forming eruptions and 100 or so lava extruding eruptions per million years, and "several to many" steam eruptions per century. [9]  The loosely defined term " supervolcano " has been used to describe volcanic fields that produce exceptionally large volcanic eruptions. Thus defined, the Yellowstone Supervolcano is the volcanic field which produced the latest three supereruptions from the Yellowstone hotspot; it also produced one additional smaller eruption, thereby creating West Thumb Lake [10] 174,000 years ago. The three supereruptions occurred 2.1 million, 1.3 million, and approximately 630,000 years ago, forming the Island Park Caldera , the Henry's Fork Caldera , and Yellowstone calderas, respectively. [11] The Island Park Caldera supereruption (2.1 million years ago), which produced the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff, was the largest, and produced 2,500 times as much ash as the 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption . The next biggest supereruption formed the Yellowstone Caldera (~ 630,000 years ago) and produced the Lava Creek Tuff. The Henry's Fork Caldera (1.2 million years ago) produced the smaller Mesa Falls Tuff, but is the only caldera from the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone hotspot that is plainly visible today. [12]  Non-explosive eruptions of lava and less-violent explosive eruptions have occurred in and near the Yellowstone caldera since the last supereruption. [13] [14] The most recent lava flow occurred about 70,000 years ago, while a violent eruption excavated the West Thumb of Lake Yellowstone around 150,000 years ago. Smaller steam explosions occur as well: an explosion 13,800 years ago left a 5 km (3.1 mi) diameter crater at Mary Bay on the edge of Yellowstone Lake (located in the center of the caldera). [15] [3] Currently, volcanic activity is exhibited via numerous geothermal vents scattered throughout the region, including the famous Old Faithful Geyser , plus recorded ground-swelling indicating ongoing inflation of the underlying magma chamber.  The volcanic eruptions, as well as the continuing geothermal activity, are a result of a great cove of magma located below the caldera's surface. The magma in this cove contains gases that are kept dissolved by the immense pressure under which the magma is contained. If the pressure is released to a sufficient degree by some geological shift, then some of the gases bubble out and cause the magma to expand. This can cause a chain reaction . If the expansion results in further relief of pressure, for example, by blowing crust material off the top of the chamber, the result is a very large gas explosion.  According to analysis of earthquake data in 2013, the magma chamber is 80 km (50 mi) long and 20 km (12 mi) wide. It also has 4,000 km 3 (960 cu mi) underground volume, of which 6–8% is filled with molten rock. This is about 2.5 times bigger than scientists had previously imagined it to be; however, scientists believe that the proportion of molten rock in the chamber is much too low to allow another supereruption. [16] [17]  Yellowstone hotspot origin  Main article: Yellowstone hotspot  The source of the Yellowstone hotspot is controversial. Some geoscientists hypothesize that the Yellowstone hotspot is the effect of an interaction between local conditions in the lithosphere and upper mantle convection . [18] [19] Others suggest an origin in the deep mantle ( mantle plume ). [20] Part of the controversy is the relatively sudden appearance of the hotspot in the geologic record. Additionally, the Columbia Basalt flows appeared at the same approximate time in the same place, causing speculation about their common origin. As the Yellowstone hotspot traveled to the east and north, the Columbia disturbance moved northward and eventually subsided. [21]  Hazards  Earthquakes     Number of earthquakes in Yellowstone National Park region (1973–2014) [22]    Volcanic and tectonic actions in the region cause between 1,000 and 2,000 measurable earthquakes annually. Most are relatively minor, measuring a magnitude of 3 or weaker. Occasionally, numerous earthquakes are detected in a relatively short period of time, an event known as an earthquake swarm . In 1985, more than 3,000 earthquakes were measured over a period of several months. More than 70 smaller swarms were detected between 1983 and 2008. The USGS states these swarms are likely caused by slips on pre-existing faults rather than by movements of magma or hydrothermal fluids. [23] [24]  In December 2008, continuing into January 2009, more than 500 quakes were detected under the northwest end of Yellowstone Lake over a seven-day span, with the largest registering a magnitude of 3.9. [25] [26] Another swarm started in January 2010, after the Haiti earthquake and before the Chile earthquake . With 1,620 small earthquakes between January 17, 2010, and February 1, 2010, this swarm was the second-largest ever recorded in the Yellowstone Caldera. The largest of these shocks was a magnitude 3.8 that occurred on January 21, 2010. [24] [27] This swarm reached the background levels by February 21. On March 30, 2014, at 6:34 AM MST, a magnitude 4.8 earthquake struck Yellowstone, the largest recorded there since February 1980. [28] In February 2018, more than 300 earthquakes occurred, with the largest being a magnitude 2.9. [29]  Volcanoes     Diagram of the Yellowstone Caldera    The last full-scale eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, the Lava Creek eruption which happened approximately 640,000 years ago, [30] ejected approximately 240 cubic miles (1,000 km 3 ) of rock, dust and volcanic ash into the sky. [3]  Geologists are closely monitoring the rise and fall of the Yellowstone Plateau , which has been rising as fast as 0.6 inches (1.5 cm) per year, as an indication of changes in magma chamber pressure. [31] [32]  The upward movement of the Yellowstone caldera floor between 2004 and 2008—almost 3 inches (7.6 cm) each year—was more than three times greater than ever observed since such measurements began in 1923. [33] From 2004 to 2008, the land surface within the caldera moved upward as much as 8 inches (20 cm) at the White Lake GPS station. [34] [35] By the end of 2009, the uplift had slowed significantly and appeared to have stopped. [36] In January 2010, the USGS stated that "uplift of the Yellowstone Caldera has slowed significantly" [37] and that uplift continues but at a slower pace. [38] The U.S. Geological Survey, University of Utah and National Park Service scientists with the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory maintain that they "see no evidence that another such cataclysmic eruption will occur at Yellowstone in the foreseeable future. Recurrence intervals of these events are neither regular nor predictable." [3] This conclusion was reiterated in December 2013 in the aftermath of the publication of a study by University of Utah scientists finding that the "size of the magma body beneath Yellowstone is significantly larger than had been thought". The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory issued a statement on its website stating,   Although fascinating, the new findings do not imply increased geologic hazards at Yellowstone, and certainly do not increase the chances of a 'supereruption' in the near future. Contrary to some media reports, Yellowstone is not 'overdue' for a supereruption. [39]   Other media reports were more hyperbolic in their coverage. [40]  A study published in GSA Today , the monthly news and science magazine of the Geological Society of America , identified three fault zones on which future eruptions are most likely to be centered. [41] Two of those areas are associated with lava flows aged 174,000–70,000 years, and the third is a focus of present-day seismicity. [41]  Hydrothermal explosions     Path of the Yellowstone hot spot over the past 16 million years    Further information: Hydrothermal explosion  Studies and analysis may indicate that the greater hazard comes from hydrothermal activity which occurs independently of volcanic activity. Over 20 large craters have been produced in the past 14,000 years, resulting in such features as Mary Bay, Turbid Lake, and Indian Pond which was created in an eruption about 1300 BC.  In a 2003 report, USGS researchers proposed that an earthquake may have displaced more than 77 million cubic feet (2,200,000 m 3 ) (576,000,000 US gallons) of water in Yellowstone Lake, creating colossal waves that unsealed a capped geothermal system and led to the hydrothermal explosion that formed Mary Bay. [42] [43]  Further research shows that very distant earthquakes reach and have effects upon the activities at Yellowstone, such as the 1992 7.3 magnitude Landers earthquake in California ’s Mojave Desert that triggered a swarm of quakes from more than 800 miles (1,300 km) away, and the 2002 7.9 magnitude Denali fault earthquake 2,000 miles (3,200 km) away in Alaska that altered the activity of many geysers and hot springs for several months afterward. [44]  In 2016, the United States Geological Survey announced plans to map the subterranean systems responsible for feeding the area's hydrothermal activity. According to the researchers, these maps could help predict when another supereruption occurs. [45]  See also   Iceland hotspot and Iceland plume describes aspects of volcanic processes  Long Valley Caldera , Valles Caldera , La Garita Caldera : examples of other calderas close to but not related to Yellowstone.   References    ^  USGS. "Yellowstone Volcano Observatory" . United States Geological Survey .   ^  "Yellowstone" . Global Volcanism Program . Smithsonian Institution . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Lowenstern, Jacob B.; Christiansen, Robert L.; Smith, Robert B.; Morgan, Lisa A.; Heasler, Henry (May 10, 2005). "Steam Explosions, Earthquakes, and Volcanic Eruptions—What's in Yellowstone's Future? – U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 2005–3024" . United States Geological Survey .   ^  as determined by geological field work conducted by Bob Christiansen of the United States Geological Survey in the 1960s and 1970s.  ^  Naomi E Matthews et al., 2015, "Age of the Lava Creek supereruption and magma chamber assembly at Yellowstone based on 40Ar/39Ar and U-Pb dating of sanidine and zircon crystals" DOI: 10.1002/2015GC005881  ^  "Yellowstone Caldera, Wyoming—USGS" . Cascade Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey . January 22, 2003 . Retrieved December 30, 2008 .   ^  Johnston, Stephen T.; Wynne, P. Jane; Francis, Don; Hart, Craig J. R.; Enkin, Randolph J.; Engebretson, David C. (1996). "Yellowstone in Yukon: The Late Cretaceous Carmacks Group". Geology . 24 (11): 997, 998. Bibcode : 1996Geo....24..997J . doi : 10.1130/0091-7613(1996)024<0997:YIYTLC>2.3.CO;2 .   ^  "Yellowstone hotspot track" . Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory . Retrieved June 10, 2010 .   ^  Yellowstone Volcanic Hazards, USGS . Volcanoes.usgs.gov (March 1, 2012). Retrieved on December 31, 2013.  ^  West Thumb Lake is not to be confused with West Thumb Geyser Basin. The caldera created West Thumb Lake, and the underlying Yellowstone hotspot keeps West Thumb Geyser Basin active. See Fig. 22  Archived June 10, 2013, at the Wayback Machine .. See also File:Yellowstone Caldera map2.JPG .  ^  Newhall, Christopher G.; Dzurisin, Daniel (1988) Historical Unrest at Large Calderas of the World : U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1855  ^  This qualitative statement is easily verified by reviewing the Yellowstone area in Google Earth  ^  "Origin and evolution of silicic magmatism at Yellowstone"  (PDF) . University of Oregon .   ^  "Secrets of supervolcanoes"  (PDF) . University of Oregon .   ^  "Introduction to hydrothermal (steam) explosions in Yellowstone" . Yellowstone National Park . Yellowstone Net . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  Witze, Alexandra (2013). "Large magma reservoir gets bigger". Nature . doi : 10.1038/nature.2013.14036 .   ^  "USGS: Volcano Hazards Program – Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Featured Articles Archive" . Retrieved April 4, 2014 .   ^  Foulger, Gillian (February 8, 2006). "Yellowstone" . MantlePlumes.org . Retrieved February 10, 2008 .   ^  Christiansen, Robert L.; Foulger, G.R.; Evans, John R. (2002). "Upper-mantle origin of the Yellowstone hotspot". Geological Society of America Bulletin . 114 (10): 1245–1256. Bibcode : 2002GSAB..114.1245C . doi : 10.1130/0016-7606(2002)114<1245:UMOOTY>2.0.CO;2 .   ^  See list of off-line references in mantleplumes.org/CRB.html  ^  Ivanov, Alexei V. (February 7, 2007). "The Columbia River Flood Basalts: Consequence of subduction-related processes" . MantlePlumes.org . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Yellowstone National Park Earthquake listings" . Retrieved April 20, 2013 .   ^  "Yellowstone Earthquake Swarms" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . Retrieved January 1, 2009 .   ^ a  b  "January 2010 Yellowstone Seismicity Summary" . Retrieved February 1, 2010 .   ^  "Archive of Yellowstone Updates for 2009" .   ^  "UUSS Webicorder (Seismogram) at Lake for December 31, 2008" . Retrieved January 1, 2009 .   ^  Johnson, Kirk (January 31, 2010). "Hundreds of Quakes Are Rattling Yellowstone" . The New York Times . Retrieved January 23, 2014 .   ^  Zuckerman, Laura. "Yellowstone National Park rattled by largest earthquake in 34 years" . Reuters . Retrieved March 31, 2014 .   Gedeon, Jacqueline (31 March 2014). "4.8 magnitude earthquake hits Yellowstone National Park" . KECI . Montana . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   ^  Zachos, Elaina (21 February 2018). "Earthquake Swarms Are Shaking Yellowstone's Supervolcano. Here's What That Means" . National Geographic . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   Bartels, Meghan (20 February 2018). "Yellowstone Supervolcano Earthquake Swarm Hits 200 Shakes In Less Than Two Weeks" . Newsweek . Retrieved 4 April 2018 .   ^  "Undine Falls, Lava Creek, Yellowstone National Park" . United States Geological Survey . Retrieved January 2, 2009 .   ^  John Timmer (November 8, 2007). "Yellowstone recharges" . arstechnica.com . Retrieved November 8, 2007 .   ^  Smith, Robert B.; Chang, Wu-Lung; Siegel, Lee (November 8, 2007). "Yellowstone rising: Volcano inflating with molten rock at record rate" . University of Utah Public Relations (Press release). EurekAlert! (American Association for the Advancement of Science).   ^  Molten Rock Fills Yellowstone Volcano at Record Rate Newswise, Retrieved on September 2, 2008.  ^  "Recent ups and downs of the Yellowstone Caldera" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey. September 28, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  Smith, Robert B.; Jordan, Michael; Steinberger, Bernhard; Puskas, Christine M.; Farrell, Jamie; Waite, Gregory P.; Husen, Stephan; Chang, Wu-Lung; O'Connell, Richard (November 20, 2009). "Geodynamics of the Yellowstone hotspot and mantle plume: Seismic and GPS imaging, kinematics and mantle flow"  (PDF) . Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research . 188 (1–3): 26–56. Bibcode : 2009JVGR..188...26S . doi : 10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2009.08.020 .   ^  Alert Archive Search . volcanoes.usgs.gov  ^  Current Alerts for U.S. Volcanoes . volcano.wr.usgs.gov  ^  GPS Station: WLWY – Data Products – Time Series Plots . unavco.org  ^  "Monitoring Upgrades Result in New Insight Into Yellowstone's Magma System" (Press release). Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (USGS). December 19, 2013 . Retrieved January 2, 2014 .   ^  Burnett, Jim (January 1, 2014). "Reactions To Yellowstone Supervolcano Study Ranged From Hysteria To Ho-Hum" . National Parks Traveller . Retrieved January 2, 2014 .   ^ a  b  Richard A. Lovett (September 20, 2012). "Yellowstone Supervolcano Discovery—Where Will It Erupt?" . National Geographic.   ^  "Frequently asked questions about recent findings at Yellowstone Lake" . Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . United States Geological Survey . September 11, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Tsunami linked to Yellowstone crater" . USA Today . January 14, 2008 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "Quake in Alaska Changed Yellowstone Geysers" . University of Utah . May 27, 2004 . Retrieved December 31, 2008 .   ^  "We're About to Find Out What's Rumbling Below The Yellowstone Supervolcano" . Science Alert . Retrieved 22 May 2017 .     Further reading   Breining, Greg (2007). Super Volcano: The Ticking Time Bomb beneath Yellowstone National Park . St. Paul, MN: Voyageur Press. ISBN  978-0-7603-2925-2 . A popularized scientific look at the Yellowstone area's geological past and potential future   Vazquez, J.A.; Reid, M.R. (2002). "Time scales of magma storage and differentiation of voluminous rhyolites at Yellowstone caldera". Contributions to Mineralogy & Petrology . Wyoming. 144 (3): 274–285. Bibcode : 2002CoMP..144..274V . doi : 10.1007/s00410-002-0400-7 .   Sutherland, Wayne; Sutherland, Judy (2003). Yellowstone Farewell . Spur Ridge. A novel looking at an eruption in the Yellowstone Caldera written by a practicing Wyoming geologist . Contains a wealth of technical details on the geology of western Wyoming    External links   The Snake River Plain and the Yellowstone Hot Spot  Yellowstone Volcano Observatory   FAQ relating to the supervolcano    Supervolcano documentary from BBC  Interactive: When Yellowstone Explodes from National Geographic  Canales, Manuel; Chung, Daisy; Santamarina, Daniela; Paniagua, Ronald; Preppernau, Charles; Canellas, Hernan; Umentum, Andrew; Conant, Eve; Sickley, Theodore A. (May 2016). "Inside Yellowstone's Supervolcano" . National Geographic . National Geographic Society.   The Yellowstone magmatic system from the mantle plume to the upper crust (46,000 km3 magma reservoir below chamber)        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yellowstone_Caldera&oldid=834314392 "  Categories : Yellowstone Caldera Landforms of Park County, Wyoming Landforms of Teton County, Wyoming Landforms of Yellowstone National Park Active volcanoes Supervolcanoes Extinction events Complex volcanoes Hotspot volcanoes VEI-8 volcanoes Volcanism of Wyoming Volcanism of Idaho Volcanoes of Wyoming Volcanoes of Idaho Calderas of the United States Snake River Potentially active volcanoes Yellowstone hotspot Climate forcing agents Geological hazards Hidden categories: Articles using GVP links in vnum format Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia semi-protected pages Use mdy dates from April 2014 Coordinates on Wikidata      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read View source View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      In other projects    Wikimedia Commons      Languages    العربية Asturianu Беларуская Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Македонски Nederlands Norsk Polski Português Română Русский සිංහල Simple English Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 5 April 2018, at 01:36.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                      USGS HOME  Contact USGS               Volcano Hazards Program         Find a U.S. Volcano   Adagdak  Akutan  Amak  Amukta  Aniakchak  Augustine  Behm Canal-Rudyerd Bay  Black Peak  Bobrof  Bogoslof  Buldir  Buzzard Creek  Carlisle  Chagulak  Chiginagak  Churchill  Cleveland  Dana  Davidof  Denison  Douglas  Duncan Canal  Dutton  Edgecumbe  Emmons Lake  Fisher  Fourpeaked  Frosty  Gareloi  Gordon  Great Sitkin  Griggs  Hayes  Herbert  Iliamna  Imuruk Lake  Ingakslugwat Hills  Isanotski  Kagamil  Kaguyak  Kanaga  Kasatochi  Katmai  Kialagvik  Kiska  Koniuji  Kookooligit Mountains  Korovin  Kukak  Kupreanof  Little Sitkin  Mageik  Makushin  Martin  Moffett  Novarupta  Nunivak Island  Okmok  Pavlof  Pavlof Sister  Recheschnoi  Redoubt  Roundtop  Sanford  Seguam  Segula  Semisopochnoi  Sergief  Shishaldin  Snowy Mountain  Spurr  St. Michael  St. Paul Island  Steller  Stepovak Bay 2  Table Top-Wide Bay  Takawangha  Tanaga  Tlevak Strait-Suemez Is.  Trident  Ugashik-Peulik  Ukinrek Maars  Uliaga  Unnamed  Veniaminof  Vsevidof  Westdahl  Wrangell  Yantarni  Yunaska  San Francisco Volcanic Field  Uinkaret Volcanic Field  Brushy Butte  Clear Lake Volcanic Field  Coso Volcanic Field  Eagle Lake Volcanic Field  Golden Trout Creek Volcanic Field  Lassen Volcanic Center  Lavic Lake Volcanic Field  Long Valley Caldera  Mammoth Mountain  Medicine Lake  Mono Lake Volcanic Field  Mono-Inyo Chain  Mount Shasta  Salton Buttes  Silver Lake Volcanic Field  Tumble Buttes  Twin Buttes  Ubehebe Craters  Dotsero Volcanic Center  Haleakala  Hualalai  Kilauea  Loihi  Mauna Kea  Mauna Loa  Black Butte Crater Lava Field  Craters of the Moon Volcanic Field  Hell's Half Acre Lava Field  Wapi Lava Field  Soda Lakes  Carrizozo Lava Flow  Valles Caldera  Zuni-Bandera Volcanic Field  Agrigan  Ahyi  Alamagan  Anatahan  Asuncion  Esmeralda Bank  Farallon de Pajaros  Guguan  Maug Islands  Pagan  Ruby  Sarigan  Supply Reef  Belknap  Blue Lake Crater  Cinnamon Butte  Crater Lake  Davis Lake Volcanic Field  Devils Garden Lava Field  Diamond Craters Volcanic Field  Four Craters Lava Field  Jordan Craters Volcanic Field  Lava Mountain Lava Field  Mount Bachelor  Mount Hood  Mount Jefferson  Newberry  Sand Mountain Volcanic Field  Three Sisters  Bald Knoll  Black Rock Desert Volcanic Field  Markagunt Plateau Volcanic Field  Santa Clara Volcanic Field  Glacier Peak  Indian Heaven Volcanic Field  Mount Adams  Mount Baker  Mount Rainier  Mount St. Helens  West Crater Volcanic Field  Yellowstone     Assess  Prepare  Forecast  |  Activity  Products  Observatories  About          Volcano Updates  Monitoring  Hazards  Education  Multimedia     Yellowstone Volcano Observatory Activity Updates | Webcams | About YVO      Current Alerts    Geology & History    Eruption History    Three Volcanic Cycles    Ash-Flow Tuffs    Volcanic Rock Layers    Geysers and Hot Springs      Hazards    Hydrothermal Explosions    Lava Flows    Ash/Tephra Fall    Pyroclastic Flows    Earthquakes    Climate Change      Monitoring    Seismicity    Yearly Quakes    2004-Quake Swarm    2009-Quake Swarm    2010-Quake Swarm    Tiny Bubbles    Swarm and Deformation    Repeating Earthquakes    Magma Reservoir Image    2010 Swarm Relocation      Deformation    2006-Caldera Uplift    2007-Ups and Downs    Deformation and Swarm    2013-Waves & Magma      Norris Temperature    2003-Norris Changes    Steamboat Geyser    Echinus Geyser    Constant Geyser    Opalescent Spring    Porkchop Geyser    Gray Lakes Tributary    Porcelain Tributary    Tantalus Creek    Vixen Soil    Nuphar Lake Air      Stream-Flow Data    Hydrology    Gas    Pre-historic Heat    Geyser Triggers      Thermal Remote Sensing    2010-FLIR & LIDAR        Multimedia    Webcams    Videos    Podcasts    Image Galleries      Publications    Caldera Chronicles    FAQs    Five Misconceptions    Supervolcanoes    Volcanic History    Monitoring    Future Activity    Geothermal    Research    2003 Lake Bulge    Ash Distribution Model    Drilling          Questions About Supervolcanoes  What is a supervolcano?    The term "supervolcano" implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the 
Volcano Explosivity Index ( VEI ), meaning 
the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles). 
The VEI scale was created as a general 
measurement of the explosivity of an eruption. There are multiple characteristics used to give an 
eruption its VEI allowing for the 
classification of current and historic eruptions. The most common criteria are volume of ejecta ( ash , pumice , lava ) and column height. 
All VEI 8 eruptions occurred tens of thousands to millions of years ago making the volume of 
ejecta or 
deposits the best method for 
classification. An eruption is classified as a VEI 8 if the measured volume of deposits is greater 
than 
1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic 
miles). Therefore a supervolcano is a volcano that at one point in time erupted more than 1,000 
cubic 
kilometers of deposits. 
Yellowstone, like many other supervolcanoes, has also had much smaller eruptions. The cartoon 
shows 
a comparison of eruption sizes, 
including the three largest from Yellowstone. Click on the image for a more detailed description 
and 
larger view.  What are some other examples of supervolcanoes?  Volcanoes that produced exceedingly voluminous pyroclastic eruptions and formed large calderas 
in the 
past 2 million years would include 
Yellowstone, Long Valley in eastern California, Toba in Indonesia, and Taupo in New Zealand. 
Other 
"supervolcanoes" would likely include 
the large caldera volcanoes of Japan, Indonesia, and South America. The most recent 
supervolcanic 
eruption on Earth occurred 27,000 years 
ago at Taupo located at the center of New Zealand's north island.  I read that scientists couldn't find the Yellowstone caldera until they looked at a photo of 
Yellowstone from space. Is this 
true?  Not according to Bob Christiansen. Bob is the USGS scientist who delineated the three Yellowstone 
calderas and told the world about the 
great eruptions that formed them. Bob reports that he traced out the caldera boundaries through 
old 
fashioned field work... walking 
around with a hammer and hand lens and looking carefully at the rocks and their distributions. 
Most of 
the key observations were made in 
the 1960s and 1970s. Several authors have written that these large calderas were discovered from 
space 
and we suspect that the rumor 
probably got started because initial field work that delineated them was partly funded by NASA. 
The 
idea was to compare well-constrained 
geologic maps with images taken from space. So Bob's geologic map was used to verify the NASA 
images, not the other way around.  In 2005, BBC and 
the Discovery 
Channel produced a docudrama and documentary about 
Yellowstone called Supervolcano . Below, Yellowstone Volcano Observatory scientists 
answer 
questions that arose after this program 
aired that relate to supervolcanoes, volcanic hazards, and Yellowstone.  The docudrama Supervolcano dramatically explores the impact of a large caldera -forming 
eruption at 
Yellowstone.  The scale of the 
portrayed eruption is similar to the eruption of the Huckleberry Ridge Tuff at Yellowstone 2.1 
million 
years ago.  The movie is realistic 
insofar as depicting what could happen if an eruption of this magnitude were to occur again.  
Although 
the drama is set in the future, it 
does an acceptable job of addressing some of the issues scientists would grapple with if 
Yellowstone 
showed signs of an impending 
eruption. The questions and answers below shed light on issues related to volcanism at 
Yellowstone. A 
much more detailed discussion, 
including full-color illustrations, can be found in the 
U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet 
about Yellowstone's activity .   QUESTION:  What is the chance of another catastrophic volcanic eruption at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Although it is possible, scientists are not convinced that there will ever be another 
catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone.  
Given Yellowstone's past history, the yearly probability of another caldera -forming eruption can be approximated as 1 in 730,000 or 
0.00014%.  However, this number is based simply on averaging the two intervals between the 
three 
major past eruptions at Yellowstone 
— this is hardly enough to make a critical judgment.  This probability is roughly similar to 
that of 
a large (1 kilometer) asteroid 
hitting the Earth. Moreover, catastrophic geologic events are neither regular nor predictable.   QUESTION:  What would happen if a "supervolcano" eruption occurred again at Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  Such a giant eruption would have regional effects such as falling ash and short-
term 
(years to decades) changes to global 
climate.  The surrounding states of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming would be affected, as well as 
other 
places in the United States and the 
world.  Such eruptions usually form calderas, broad volcanic depressions created as the ground 
surface 
collapses as a result of 
withdrawal of partially molten rock ( magma ) below.  Fortunately, the chances of this sort of 
eruption at 
Yellowstone are exceedingly 
small in the next few thousands of years.   QUESTION:  Is Yellowstone monitored for volcanic activity?  ANSWER:  Yes.  The Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership between the United 
States Geological Survey (USGS), 
Yellowstone National Park, and the University of Utah, closely monitors volcanic activity at 
Yellowstone.  
The YVO website features real-
time 
data for earthquakes , ground deformation , stream flow, and selected stream temperatures.  In addition, YVO scientists 
collaborate 
with scientists from around the 
world to study the Yellowstone volcano.   QUESTION:  Do scientists know if a catastrophic eruption is currently imminent at 
Yellowstone?  ANSWER: There is no evidence that a catastrophic eruption at Yellowstone is imminent, and 
such 
events are unlikely to occur in the 
next few centuries. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava .   QUESTION:  How far in advance could scientists predict an eruption of the Yellowstone 
volcano?  ANSWER: The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the 
past 25 
years. Most scientists think that 
the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months 
to 
years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions 
include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to 
weeks 
before an actual eruption. 
Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) closely monitor the Yellowstone region 
for such 
precursors.  They expect that the 
buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background 
levels) 
at multiple spots within the 
Yellowstone volcano.  As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes , ground 
uplift 
and subsidence, and gas releases at 
Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.   QUESTION:  Can you release some of the pressure at Yellowstone by drilling into the volcano?  ANSWER:  No. Scientists agree that drilling into a volcano would be of
questionable usefulness. Notwithstanding the enormous expense and technological
difficulties in drilling through hot, mushy rock, drilling is unlikely
to have much effect. At near magmatic temperatures and pressures, any hole would rapidly 
become 
sealed by minerals crystallizing from the 
natural fluids that are present at those depths.   QUESTION:  Could the Yellowstone volcano have an eruption that is not catastrophic?  ANSWER:  Yes.  Over the past 640,000 years since the last giant eruption at Yellowstone, 
approximately 80 relatively nonexplosive 
eruptions have occurred and produced primarily lava flows. This would be the most likely kind of 
future 
eruption. If such an event were 
to occur today, there would be much disruption of activities in Yellowstone National Park, but in 
all 
likelihood few lives would be 
threatened.  The most recent volcanic eruption at Yellowstone, a lava flow on the Pitchstone 
Plateau, 
occurred 70,000 years ago.   QUESTION:  Because Yellowstone is so geologically active, are there other potential geologic 
hazards in Yellowstone?  ANSWER:  The heat and geologic forces fueling the massive Yellowstone volcano affect the park in 
many 
ways.  Yellowstone's many geysers, 
hotsprings, steam vents , and mudpots are evidence of the heat and geologic forces. These 
hydrothermal 
(hot water) features are mostly 
benign, but can rarely be the sites of violent steam explosions and pose a hydrothermal hazard. Earthquakes , another example of active 
geologic forces, are quite common in Yellowstone, with 1,000 to 3,000 occurring annually. Most 
of 
these are quite small, although 
significant earthquakes have shaken Yellowstone, such as the 1959 magnitude 7.5 Hebgen Lake 
quake, 
the largest historical earthquake in 
the intermountain region, and the 1975 magnitude 6.1 quake near Norris Geyser Basin. The many 
earthquakes and steam explosions in the 
past 10,000 years at Yellowstone have not led to volcanic eruptions.       Contact Us | Accessibility | FOIA | Privacy | Policies and Notices | U.S. Department of the Interior | U.S. Geological Survey | USAGov  Page modified: 2015-08-21 08:05:03                                       share        Trending         Science  #WhoaScience            Science  #WhoaScience   Aug 31, 2017 @ 03:42 PM           Here Are The Odds Of You Seeing A Supervolcano Erupt In Your Lifetime                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Robin Andrews    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.             Is it me, or are supervolcanic eruptions heard of and never seen? Thankfully, I suppose, this remains the case in modern society. Although this is a popular science term rather than a truly technical one - it was popularized by the BBC awhile back - it's rather useful as a way of describing utterly catastrophic periods of volcanism, either those emitted over an extremely long time period or short, sharp paroxysms that unleash city-sized amounts of volcanic debris on the wider world.  If we focus on the more traditional, explosive definition of a supereruption, then that means that there have been 42 in the last 36 million years alone that have topped the Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI), an imperfect scale that measures eruptions largely based on volcanic output, rather than actual energy released. VEI 8 events produce more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of volcanic matter, enough to completely fill Lake Tahoe up more than six-and-a-half times.         Hot lava flows down the Mount Sinabung volcano in the night in Karo, North Sumatra on July 30, 2017. (TIBTA PANGIN/AFP/Getty Images)      Life on Earth has long been affected by such spectacular outbursts - not really because of the actual eruption itself, but because of the resulting climate change. Volcanoes, across geological timescales, release both greenhouse gases and/or sunlight-blocking aerosols; they have successfully frozen and boiled the world several times .    Now, with all this epic imagery splashed across your screen, you may find it difficult to actually envision what such an apocalyptic event may have physically looked and felt like. That brings us to the crux of this thought process; will any people alive today witness a volcanic supereruption?  Although it’s a crude measure, you could say that, based on all those VEI 8s, one supereruption takes place every 857,142 years or so. Modern humans have only been around for about 350,000 years or so, so it looks like it’s fairly unlikely that we may ever see one in our lifetime. Take Yellowstone’s supervolcano, for example: according to the USGS, there’s a mere one-in-730,000 chance this year alone that it will empty out its colossal magma supply onto the surface. Ho hum – no end of civilization for us.   Funnily enough, thanks to us serendipitously popping up on the evolutionary tapestry at the right time, humans have seen a supervolcanic eruption before. Although several eruptions could partly qualify as being epic enough and voluminous enough to fall into the niche category of human-viewed supereruptions, only one truly fits the bill: that of Toba, which rocked what is now Indonesia 73,000 years ago.  Toba was a true monster . Its eruption produced a crater 100 kilometers long and produced at least 2,800 cubic kilometers of volcanic debris, much of which blasted upwards in a volcanic plume at least twice the height of Mount Everest. By the week’s end, the entirety of South Asia was smothered by an ash layer 15 centimeters deep. It even unleashed so much sunlight-blocking aerosols that some studies suggest the planet enduring a six-year-long volcanic winter, although this is proving difficult to confirm.  Until recently, it was thought that although humans would have certainly been affected by this eruption to some degree, they probably wouldn’t have actually seen it. However, a brand-new piece of research had something to say about that.         Lake Toba, the flooded crater produced by the supervolcanic eruption 73,000 years ago, seen today. (Shutterstock)      Back in the late 19 th Century, Dutch archaeologist, Eugène Dubois found some teeth in a cave by the name of Lida Ajer, on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. They were seen as novelties at the time but weren’t thoroughly studied. A new team of Australian researchers, who had followed a mysterious trail of human tools all the way up from that desert continent to the volcanic archipelago, used contemporary dating techniques on these teeth and found that they were up to 73,000 years old . Comparisons with other primates confirmed that the teeth also belonged to modern humans, which makes them the oldest human remains in the region.  That means that there’s a very good chance that humans arrived in Indonesia just as Toba decided to blow its top . They would have been greeted by an image of the end of days; a grim sky-high fire that choked their lungs and smothered their new home. It’s something that they, and only they, have witnessed in the entirety of human history.  Sure – one day, people will most likely be around to witness yet another supervolcanic eruption. It will likely be several tens or hundreds of thousands of years before it happens, but there’s a slim chance it could happen tomorrow – unfortunately, the rarer the eruption type, the harder it is to predict when the next one will be.  If you’re keen to have a front seat at the fireworks show, I’d suggest eschewing Yellowstone and going to Naples instead, which sits atop Campi Flegrei, Italy’s supervolcano. It’s ever-so-slightly more likely to go off than Yellowstone, and I hear that the food in that part of the world is better than anything you’ll find in Wyoming. No offense.                 Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                    Explore Follow Science History share this The Chances Yellowstone's Supervolcano Will Erupt in Your Lifetime Are Slim Don't panic. By Yasmin Tayag on October 12, 2017 Filed Under Answers , Geology , Natural Disasters & Rock A colossal, active supervolcano lies beneath the surface of Yellowstone National Park , fueling the piping hot springs and geysers that attract some 3.8 million visitors each year. Potential guests may think twice about their next visit, though, especially after reading recent headlines suggesting that the supervolcano may blow at any minute. Fortunately, such claims are far from the truth. In their study, the team examined minerals left behind in the fossilized ash from the supervolcano’s last mega-eruption, which happened 631,000 years ago. At that time, it spat out 240 cubic miles worth of rock and ash and created what’s now known as the Yellowstone caldera and the Lava Creek Tuff, which is where the team collected samples for their analysis. The two eruptions before that, which took place sometime in the last 2 million years, each created the two other calderas found in the park. Movement of new magma into the volcano system is thought to have triggered the last eruption in a matter of decades. Those alarming stories are based on the work that researchers at Arizona State University presented at a volcanology conference in Portland, Oregon, in August. While they didn’t find that Yellowstone’s supervolcano was going to erupt anytime soon, they did find that the chain of events that triggers an eruption moves along much more quickly than was once believed. Article continues below The revolution will not be televised. It'll be sent to your inbox by us. Sign up for our newsletter: sign up “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” said Hannah Shamloo, a graduate student at Arizona State University and co-author on the study, in an interview with the New York Times on Tuesday. The history of Yellowstone's eruptions and the calderas that they formed. The crystals they dug up were a record of the timing of those previous eruptions and the geological events — like the movement of magma into the volcano — that led up to them. Scientists used to think that once one of these events happened, the effects would take several millennia to manifest into an actual eruption. But the crystals, which chronicled changes in temperature, pressure, and water in the magma in which they formed in their different layers, suggested that those changes can happen in a matter of decades. In the case of the supervolcano’s last explosion, they note, the analysis shows the eruption process was triggered when new magma moved into the volcano just decades before. But everything is relative, and what seems rapid in geologic timescales is painfully slow for humans — likely too slow for any living human to really be concerned about. Even if Yellowstone’s supervolcano gets a sudden injection of new magma the way it did 630,000 years ago, we would, according to this study, have several decades to prepare. And, because the volcano is one of the most closely monitored volcanoes in the world, we would definitely know if that happened. According to scientists at the United States Geological Survey, Yellowstone’s history puts the yearly probability of another caldera-forming eruption as one in 730,000 , or 0.00014 percent — odds that are, they note, roughly similar to that of a large (1 kilometer) asteroid hitting the Earth. The odds of a U.S. nuclear war with North Korea, according to the August estimate from retired Navy Adm. James Stavridis, meanwhile, are 10 percent . You've read that, now watch this: "Evolution Has Made Our Faces Less Punchable" Photos via National Parks Service, USGS, Jim Trodel/Flickr Written by Yasmin Tayag More articles by Yasmin • Twitter tweet share Why Cats "Chirp" and "Chatter": Science Explains the... LSD Gives Congenitally Blind 'Rock Star' Synesthesia... "Zombie Raccoons" are Invading Because the Trash Pan... Africa May Be Splitting into Two Continents Thanks t... Man Assumed 30-Pound Tumor Removed From His Stomach ... Scientists Discover the Holy Trinity of Orgasmic Sex... LSD Study Shows Unprecedented "Harmonic" Reorganizat... Neanderthals Were Capable of "Turbo Breathing" to Su... Follow inverse on Facebook Follow humans+ on Facebook Follow star wars on Facebook Follow science & chill on Facebook Follow inverse on Flipboard Follow inverse on Apple News Sign up for our newsletter sign up About Advertise Archive Browse Privacy Commerce Terms DMCA 2018 Science Innovation Entertainment Culture Mind & Body Brave New Worlds » Brave New Worlds Humans+ » Humans+ Life in Space » Life in Space Point B » Point B Replicant » Replicant Science & Chill » Science & Chill About Advertise Archive Browse Privacy Commerce Terms DMCA 2018        Skip to global NPS navigation  Skip to park navigation  Skip to main content  Skip to park information  Skip to footer             National Park Service Logo  National Park Service        Search      This Site  All NPS         Search       Open Menu             Explore This Park   Park Home    Plan Your Visit    Take the Yellowstone Pledge    Chinese    Czech    French    German    Italian    Japanese    Korean    Russian    Spanish      Basic Information    Operating Hours & Seasons    Seasonal Highlights    Summer in Yellowstone    Winter in Yellowstone      Fees & Passes    Academic Fee Waivers      Current Conditions    Backcountry Situation Report    Canyon Area Construction    Current Geyser Activity      Permits & Reservations    Film, Photography & Sound Recording    Weddings & Other Ceremonies    Public Assemblies & First Amendment Activities    Commercial Travel    Ash Scattering      Weather    Pets    FAQs    Park Facts    Visitation Statistics      Regulations    Backcountry Regulations      Goods & Services    Stores & Gift Shops        Directions & Transportation    Park Roads    Maps    Latitude, Longitude & UTMs      Eating & Sleeping    Lodging    Camping    Bridge Bay Campground    Canyon Campground    Fishing Bridge RV Park    Grant Village Campground    Indian Creek Campground    Lewis Lake Campground    Madison Campground    Mammoth Hot Springs Campground    Norris Campground    Pebble Creek Campground    Slough Creek Campground    Tower Fall Campground      Picnicking    Restaurants      Places To Go    Visitor Centers    Albright Visitor Center    Canyon Visitor Education Center    Old Faithful Visitor Education Center      Canyon Village Area    Canyon Village Area FAQs      Fishing Bridge, Lake Village, and Bridge Bay Areas    Visitor Centers and Museums    Fishing Bridge and Lake Village FAQs      Madison and West Yellowstone Area    Madison and West Yellowstone FAQs      Mammoth Hot Springs Area    More Area Highlights    Mammoth Hot Springs Area FAQs      Norris Area    Norris FAQs      Old Faithful Area    More Old Faithful Area Highlights    Old Faithful Area FAQs      Tower-Roosevelt Area    Tower-Roosevelt Area FAQs      West Thumb and Grant Village Area    West Thumb and Grant Village FAQs        Things To Do    Backcountry Camping    Allowed Bear-Resistant Food Storage Containers    Winter Backcountry Camping      Bicycling    Spring & Fall Bicycling      Boating    Clean, Drain & Dry      Day Hiking    Day Hiking Guides      Fishing    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northwest    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southwest    Fishing Season Dates      Horseback Riding    Day Ride Permits    Coggins Test    Exotic Plants -- Don't Let Them Ride With You    Stock Packing Regulations      Photography    Ranger Programs    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches    Snowmobile Access Program    Snowmobile Access Program Logistics & Regulations    New BAT Snowmobile List    Snowmobile Rentals      Wildlife Viewing    Guided Tours    Backpacking    Bicycling    Boating    Day Hiking    Fishing    Painting & Photography    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Stock Outfitters    Transportation        Calendar    Safety    Bear Safety    A Bear Doesn't Care Campaign    Bear Management Areas    Bear Spray    Camping in Bear Country    Hiking in Bear Country    Reacting to a Bear Encounter    Tips for Watching Roadside Bears      Backcountry Safety      Accessibility    Wheelchairs & Mobility    Accessible Lodging    Backcountry Accessibility    Segway® Personal Transporters & Similar Vehicles    Canyon Village & Grand Canyon Accessibilty    Fishing Bridge, Lake, Bridge Bay Accessibility    Grant Village & West Thumb Accessibility    Madison & West Yellowstone Accessibility    Mammoth Hot Springs Accessibility    Norris Geyser Basin & Area Accessibility    Old Faithful Accessibility    Tower Area Accessibility      Visual    Service Animals      Nearby Attractions    Brochures    Apps    Translated Visitor Information    Wildlife & Science Publications        Learn About the Park    News    Social Media    Instameets      Park Newspaper    News Releases      Photos & Multimedia    Photo Gallery    Visitor Activities    Lakes and Ponds    Canyons and Rivers    Campground Photos    Lodging Photos    Skies    Thermal Features    Vegetation    Waterfalls    Weather    Wildlife      Sounds    1610 AM    Audio Postcards    Orientation Audio - Chinese    Sound Library    Telemetry      Videos    Yellowstone In Depth    Minute Out In It    Q&A;    Inside Yellowstone    Video Library    Visiting Yellowstone    Wildlife Safety      Virtual Tours    Interactive Features    Webcams    Webcam FAQs        History & Culture    History Publications    Park History    Timeline of Human History in Yellowstone    The Earliest Humans    Historic Tribes    European Americans Arrive    Expeditions Explore Yellowstone    Birth of a National Park    Early Visitors    World War II through the 1960s    Modern Management    Historic Wildlife Observations    More Information      Preserving Cultural Resources    Archeology    Ethnography    Cultural Landscapes      Places    Lake Hotel    Lamar Buffalo Ranch    Mammoth Hot Springs    Fort Yellowstone    Old Faithful Area      Collections    Archives    Museum Collection    HRC Blog    Research Library    Historian    Historic Vehicle Collection      FAQs      Nature    Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem    Influence of Geology    Air Quality    Soundscapes    Water    Cycles and Processes    Winter Ecology    Beyond Boundaries    Land Use    Wilderness    Winter Use    Dark Skies      Climate Change    Changes in Yellowstone Climate    Examining the Evidence in Yellowstone    Global Climate Change      Geology    Volcano    Hydrothermal Systems    Hydrothermal Features    Yellowstone Lake Geology    Earthquakes    Glaciers    Sedimentation and Erosion    Fossils      Wildlife    Amphibians    Birds    Fish and Aquatic Species    Mammals    Reptiles    Report a Sighting    Rescuing Wildlife      Life in Extreme Heat    Thermophilic Archaea    Thermophilic Bacteria    Thermophilic Eukarya    Thermophilic Viruses    Thermophilic Communities    Thermophiles in Time and Space      Plants    Forests    Sagebrush-steppe    Wetlands    Hydrothermal Plant Communities    Wildflowers    Ross's Bentgrass    Yellowstone Sand Verbena    Yellowstone Sulphur Flower    Invasive Plants    Restoring Native Plants    Herbarium      Fire    Fire Information Continued    Fire History    Ecological Consequences of Fire    Fire FAQs    Fire References    1988 Fires        Science & Research    Fisheries & Aquatic Sciences Program    Preparing For Restoration    Yellowstone Fish Reports      Research    History of Science in Yellowstone    Research Permit Office      Yellowstone Science    YS 25(1) Conservation of Native Fish    Issues Index    Submission Guidelines      Biennial Scientific Conferences    13th Biennial Conference: Building on the Past, Leading into the Future    13th Biennial Conference Keynote Speakers    13th Biennial Conference Sponsors & Partners    12th Biennial Conference: Crossing Borders        Education    Expedition Yellowstone    Curriculum Supplements      Parks as Classrooms    Curriculum Materials    Field Trips    Institutes & Field Schools      Distance Learning      Kids & Youth    Park Fun From Anywhere    National Park Service Centennial    Coloring Book    Wildlife Olympics    Animal Alphabet Book: ABCDE    Predict Old Faithful      Every Kid In Park: Visiting Yellowstone    Be A Junior Ranger    Wildlife Olympics    Let's Move Outside Junior Ranger      Become A Young Scientist      Management    Our Staff & Offices    Concessions Management    Resource Education and Youth Programs    Resource and Visitor Protection    Yellowstone Center for Resources      Yellowstone's Biosphere & World Heritage Designations    Laws & Policies    Superintendent's Compendium    Transporting Carcasses Through Yellowstone    Guidance for Protecting Yellowstone    Yellowstone National Park Protection Act (1872)    National Park Service Organic Act (1916)    Environmental Laws    Cultural Resource Laws      Bison Management    A History of Bison Management    Questions & Answers About Bison Management    Bison Articles & Publications      Fire Management    Wildfire Smoke & Air Quality    Current Fire Activity    Fire Information Blog    Wildland Fire Program        Bookstore    Resources and Issues      Get Involved    Partners    Donate    Volunteer    Work With Us    Youth Conservation Corps      Do Business With Us    CUA Application Questions    Commercial Use Authorization Payments    Authorized Service Catagories    CUA Guided Stream & Shoreline Fishing Operating Plan    CUA Guided Painting & Photography Operating Plan    CUA Guided Backcountry Trips Operating Plan    CUA Guided Biking Operating Plan    CUA Guided Hiking Operating Plan    CUA Guided NonMotorized Operating Plan    CUA Guided Motorized Operating Plan      Commercial Use Authorization Plan      Planning    Summer Use    Transportation & Vehicle Mobility Study    Visitor Use Study      Winter Use    Current Management and Planning    Winter Use Adaptive Management Program    Winter Use: Management & Planning Archive    A Place of Winter Magic & Vulnerability    Winter Use: A Timeline    Winter Use: The Role & Future of Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches        Sustainability    Conservation Measures    Strategic Plan for Sustainability    Introduction    Categories for Achieving Sustainability                              Yellowstone   National Park  ID, MT, WY                       Park Home    Plan Your Visit    Take the Yellowstone Pledge    Chinese    Czech    French    German    Italian    Japanese    Korean    Russian    Spanish      Basic Information    Operating Hours & Seasons    Seasonal Highlights    Summer in Yellowstone    Winter in Yellowstone      Fees & Passes    Academic Fee Waivers      Current Conditions    Backcountry Situation Report    Canyon Area Construction    Current Geyser Activity      Permits & Reservations    Film, Photography & Sound Recording    Weddings & Other Ceremonies    Public Assemblies & First Amendment Activities    Commercial Travel    Ash Scattering      Weather    Pets    FAQs    Park Facts    Visitation Statistics      Regulations    Backcountry Regulations      Goods & Services    Stores & Gift Shops        Directions & Transportation    Park Roads    Maps    Latitude, Longitude & UTMs      Eating & Sleeping    Lodging    Camping    Bridge Bay Campground    Canyon Campground    Fishing Bridge RV Park    Grant Village Campground    Indian Creek Campground    Lewis Lake Campground    Madison Campground    Mammoth Hot Springs Campground    Norris Campground    Pebble Creek Campground    Slough Creek Campground    Tower Fall Campground      Picnicking    Restaurants      Places To Go    Visitor Centers    Albright Visitor Center    Canyon Visitor Education Center    Old Faithful Visitor Education Center      Canyon Village Area    Canyon Village Area FAQs      Fishing Bridge, Lake Village, and Bridge Bay Areas    Visitor Centers and Museums    Fishing Bridge and Lake Village FAQs      Madison and West Yellowstone Area    Madison and West Yellowstone FAQs      Mammoth Hot Springs Area    More Area Highlights    Mammoth Hot Springs Area FAQs      Norris Area    Norris FAQs      Old Faithful Area    More Old Faithful Area Highlights    Old Faithful Area FAQs      Tower-Roosevelt Area    Tower-Roosevelt Area FAQs      West Thumb and Grant Village Area    West Thumb and Grant Village FAQs        Things To Do    Backcountry Camping    Allowed Bear-Resistant Food Storage Containers    Winter Backcountry Camping      Bicycling    Spring & Fall Bicycling      Boating    Clean, Drain & Dry      Day Hiking    Day Hiking Guides      Fishing    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Northwest    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southeast    Fishing in Yellowstone's Southwest    Fishing Season Dates      Horseback Riding    Day Ride Permits    Coggins Test    Exotic Plants -- Don't Let Them Ride With You    Stock Packing Regulations      Photography    Ranger Programs    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches    Snowmobile Access Program    Snowmobile Access Program Logistics & Regulations    New BAT Snowmobile List    Snowmobile Rentals      Wildlife Viewing    Guided Tours    Backpacking    Bicycling    Boating    Day Hiking    Fishing    Painting & Photography    Skiing & Snowshoeing    Stock Outfitters    Transportation        Calendar    Safety    Bear Safety    A Bear Doesn't Care Campaign    Bear Management Areas    Bear Spray    Camping in Bear Country    Hiking in Bear Country    Reacting to a Bear Encounter    Tips for Watching Roadside Bears      Backcountry Safety      Accessibility    Wheelchairs & Mobility    Accessible Lodging    Backcountry Accessibility    Segway® Personal Transporters & Similar Vehicles    Canyon Village & Grand Canyon Accessibilty    Fishing Bridge, Lake, Bridge Bay Accessibility    Grant Village & West Thumb Accessibility    Madison & West Yellowstone Accessibility    Mammoth Hot Springs Accessibility    Norris Geyser Basin & Area Accessibility    Old Faithful Accessibility    Tower Area Accessibility      Visual    Service Animals      Nearby Attractions    Brochures    Apps    Translated Visitor Information    Wildlife & Science Publications        Learn About the Park    News    Social Media    Instameets      Park Newspaper    News Releases      Photos & Multimedia    Photo Gallery    Visitor Activities    Lakes and Ponds    Canyons and Rivers    Campground Photos    Lodging Photos    Skies    Thermal Features    Vegetation    Waterfalls    Weather    Wildlife      Sounds    1610 AM    Audio Postcards    Orientation Audio - Chinese    Sound Library    Telemetry      Videos    Yellowstone In Depth    Minute Out In It    Q&A;    Inside Yellowstone    Video Library    Visiting Yellowstone    Wildlife Safety      Virtual Tours    Interactive Features    Webcams    Webcam FAQs        History & Culture    History Publications    Park History    Timeline of Human History in Yellowstone    The Earliest Humans    Historic Tribes    European Americans Arrive    Expeditions Explore Yellowstone    Birth of a National Park    Early Visitors    World War II through the 1960s    Modern Management    Historic Wildlife Observations    More Information      Preserving Cultural Resources    Archeology    Ethnography    Cultural Landscapes      Places    Lake Hotel    Lamar Buffalo Ranch    Mammoth Hot Springs    Fort Yellowstone    Old Faithful Area      Collections    Archives    Museum Collection    HRC Blog    Research Library    Historian    Historic Vehicle Collection      FAQs      Nature    Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem    Influence of Geology    Air Quality    Soundscapes    Water    Cycles and Processes    Winter Ecology    Beyond Boundaries    Land Use    Wilderness    Winter Use    Dark Skies      Climate Change    Changes in Yellowstone Climate    Examining the Evidence in Yellowstone    Global Climate Change      Geology    Volcano    Hydrothermal Systems    Hydrothermal Features    Yellowstone Lake Geology    Earthquakes    Glaciers    Sedimentation and Erosion    Fossils      Wildlife    Amphibians    Birds    Fish and Aquatic Species    Mammals    Reptiles    Report a Sighting    Rescuing Wildlife      Life in Extreme Heat    Thermophilic Archaea    Thermophilic Bacteria    Thermophilic Eukarya    Thermophilic Viruses    Thermophilic Communities    Thermophiles in Time and Space      Plants    Forests    Sagebrush-steppe    Wetlands    Hydrothermal Plant Communities    Wildflowers    Ross's Bentgrass    Yellowstone Sand Verbena    Yellowstone Sulphur Flower    Invasive Plants    Restoring Native Plants    Herbarium      Fire    Fire Information Continued    Fire History    Ecological Consequences of Fire    Fire FAQs    Fire References    1988 Fires        Science & Research    Fisheries & Aquatic Sciences Program    Preparing For Restoration    Yellowstone Fish Reports      Research    History of Science in Yellowstone    Research Permit Office      Yellowstone Science    YS 25(1) Conservation of Native Fish    Issues Index    Submission Guidelines      Biennial Scientific Conferences    13th Biennial Conference: Building on the Past, Leading into the Future    13th Biennial Conference Keynote Speakers    13th Biennial Conference Sponsors & Partners    12th Biennial Conference: Crossing Borders        Education    Expedition Yellowstone    Curriculum Supplements      Parks as Classrooms    Curriculum Materials    Field Trips    Institutes & Field Schools      Distance Learning      Kids & Youth    Park Fun From Anywhere    National Park Service Centennial    Coloring Book    Wildlife Olympics    Animal Alphabet Book: ABCDE    Predict Old Faithful      Every Kid In Park: Visiting Yellowstone    Be A Junior Ranger    Wildlife Olympics    Let's Move Outside Junior Ranger      Become A Young Scientist      Management    Our Staff & Offices    Concessions Management    Resource Education and Youth Programs    Resource and Visitor Protection    Yellowstone Center for Resources      Yellowstone's Biosphere & World Heritage Designations    Laws & Policies    Superintendent's Compendium    Transporting Carcasses Through Yellowstone    Guidance for Protecting Yellowstone    Yellowstone National Park Protection Act (1872)    National Park Service Organic Act (1916)    Environmental Laws    Cultural Resource Laws      Bison Management    A History of Bison Management    Questions & Answers About Bison Management    Bison Articles & Publications      Fire Management    Wildfire Smoke & Air Quality    Current Fire Activity    Fire Information Blog    Wildland Fire Program        Bookstore    Resources and Issues      Get Involved    Partners    Donate    Volunteer    Work With Us    Youth Conservation Corps      Do Business With Us    CUA Application Questions    Commercial Use Authorization Payments    Authorized Service Catagories    CUA Guided Stream & Shoreline Fishing Operating Plan    CUA Guided Painting & Photography Operating Plan    CUA Guided Backcountry Trips Operating Plan    CUA Guided Biking Operating Plan    CUA Guided Hiking Operating Plan    CUA Guided NonMotorized Operating Plan    CUA Guided Motorized Operating Plan      Commercial Use Authorization Plan      Planning    Summer Use    Transportation & Vehicle Mobility Study    Visitor Use Study      Winter Use    Current Management and Planning    Winter Use Adaptive Management Program    Winter Use: Management & Planning Archive    A Place of Winter Magic & Vulnerability    Winter Use: A Timeline    Winter Use: The Role & Future of Snowmobiles & Snowcoaches        Sustainability    Conservation Measures    Strategic Plan for Sustainability    Introduction    Categories for Achieving Sustainability                       Info       Alerts        Maps       Calendar       Reserve                   Alerts In Effect  Dismiss                 ×  Contact Us                             Explore This Park    Learn About the Park    Nature    Geology    Volcano    Volcano FAQs                   Yellowstone Volcano: Frequently Asked Questions         Evidence of volcanic activity can be found throughout Yellowstone. Tuff Cliff, for example, reveals an ash flow welded into rock. NPS / Neal Herbert        Is Yellowstone a volcano?  Yes. Within the past two million years, episodic volcanic eruptions have occurred in the Yellowstone area—three of them major.  What is the caldera shown on the park map? The Yellowstone Caldera was created by a massive volcanic eruption approximately 640,000 years ago. Subsequent lava flows filled in much of the caldera, and it is now measured at 30 x 45 miles. Its rim can best be seen from the Washburn Hot Springs overlook, south of Dunraven Pass. Gibbon Falls, Lewis Falls, Lake Butte, and Flat Mountain Arm of Yellowstone Lake are part of the rim.  When did the Yellowstone volcano last erupt? An eruption approximately 174,000 years ago created what is now the West Thumb of Yellowstone Lake. The last lava flow was about 70,000 years ago.  Is the volcano still active? Yes. The park’s many hydrothermal features attest to the heat still beneath this area. Earthquakes—1,000 to 3,000 per year—also reveal activity below ground. The University of Utah Seismograph Station tracks this activity closely.  What is Yellowstone National Park doing to prevent an eruption? Nothing can be done to prevent an eruption. The temperatures, pressures, physical characteristics of partially molten rock, and immensity of the magma chamber are beyond human ability to impact—much less control.  What is a supervolcano? Some scientists consider Yellowstone to be a "supervolcano," which refers to volcano capable of an eruption of more than 240 cubic miles of magma. Two of Yellowstone’s three major eruptions met the criteria.  Will the Yellowstone volcano erupt soon? Current geologic activity at Yellowstone has remained relatively constant since scientists first started monitoring more than 30 years ago. Another caldera-forming eruption is theoretically possible, but it is very unlikely in the next thousand or even 10,000 years. Scientists have also found no indication of an imminent smaller eruption of lava.  How do scientists know the Yellowstone volcano won't erupt? Scientists from the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO) watch an array of monitors in place throughout the region. These monitors would detect sudden or strong movements or shifts in heat that would indicate increasing activity. No such evidence exists at this time. In addition, YVO scientists collaborate with scientists from all over the world to study the hazards of the Yellowstone volcano. To view current data about earthquakes, ground movement, and stream flow visit the YVO website .  If Old Faithful Geyser quits, is that a sign the volcano is about to erupt? All geysers are highly dynamic, including Old Faithful. We expect Old Faithful to change in response to the ongoing geologic processes associated with mineral deposition and earthquakes. Thus, a change in Old Faithful Geyser will not necessarily indicate a change in volcanic activity.  How much advance notice would there be of an eruption? The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the past 25 years. Most scientists think that the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months to years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to weeks before an actual eruption. Scientists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory closely monitor the Yellowstone region for such precursors. They expect that the buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background levels) at multiple spots within the Yellowstone volcano. As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes, ground uplift and subsidence, and gas releases at Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.  In regard to volcanic activity, is it safe to visit Yellowstone? Yes. Scientists do not have any indication of an imminent eruption, or any eruption, at this time.  When will the volcano erupt again? Will there be any warning? How much warning will there be? The science of forecasting a volcanic eruption has significantly advanced over the past 25 years. Most scientists think that the buildup preceding a catastrophic eruption would be detectable for weeks and perhaps months to years. Precursors to volcanic eruptions include strong earthquake swarms and rapid ground deformation and typically take place days to weeks before an actual eruption. Scientists at the YVO closely monitor the Yellowstone region for such precursors. They expect that the buildup to larger eruptions would include intense precursory activity (far exceeding background levels) at multiple spots within the Yellowstone volcano. As at many caldera systems around the world, small earthquakes, ground uplift and subsidence, and gas releases at Yellowstone are commonplace events and do not reflect impending eruptions.  How will the park get the word out if there is an eruption? The park would communicate accurate and timely information to park visitors, park employees, concessioners, surrounding communities, media outlets, and other interested parties through the park's 24-hour Communications Center; news releases; established emergency response programs; and through notification of appropriate interagency, state and local government agencies.  Where would it be safe to be during an eruption? For the most likely type of volcanic eruption in Yellowstone, everywhere would be safe except in the immediate vicinity of the advancing lava flow. In the highly improbable event of a large catastrophic eruption, the greater the distance from the eruptive center, the safer it would be. It is impossible to know the effects of the eruption without guessing at the explosivity of the highly unlikely eruption and the total amount of the material erupted.  Would the public know about a possible eruption? Yes. Scientists continuously monitor volcano activity in Yellowstone and share that information through news releases, web sites, etc. Current real-time-monitoring data are online .  Where can I see volcanic flows?   Sheepeater Cliff: columnar basalt  Obsidian Cliff: lava  Virginia Cascades: ash flow  Gibbon Falls: Near caldera rim  Tuff Cliff: ash flow  West Entrance Road, Mt. Haynes and Mt. Jackson: columnar rhyolite  Lava Creek tuff 7. Firehole Canyon: lava  Lewis Falls: Near caldera rim  Lake Butte: On edge of caldera, overall view of caldera  Washburn Hot Springs Overlook: overall view of caldera  Between Tower Fall and Tower Junction: columnar basalt        More Information   What Lies Beneath: Yellowstone's Volcano and Geologic Story . The story begins long before the "supervolcano."  Video Q&A : Dr. Henry Heasler answers common questions about the Yellowstone volcano.   Yellowstone Volcano Observatory  Old Faithful Geyser Webcam   Watch the Inside Yellowstone episodes about the volcano (approx. 2 min. each)                Last updated: September 21, 2017             Contact the Park    Mailing Address:    P.O. Box 168   Yellowstone National Park , WY  82190-0168      Phone:  (307) 344-7381   Contact Us         Tools    FAQ    Site Index    Español         Stay Connected    Facebook    Twitter    Instagram    Youtube    Flickr    More                        Search    This Site  All NPS                 National Park Service  U.S. Department of the Interior       National Park Service Logo          Accessibility  Privacy Policy  FOIA  Notices  Disclaimer    FAQ  No Fear Act  Contact Us  USA.gov        Facebook    Facebook        Youtube    Youtube        Twitter    Twitter        Instagram    Instagram        Flickr    Flickr        iTunes    iTunes                                                             Yellowstone Supervolcano Could Erupt Sooner Than We Thought. Here’s What You Need to Know.                                     Subscribe                 Home    Subscribe                                   40 Under 40    100 Best Companies to Work For    Fortune 500    Global 500    50 Most Powerful Women in Business    World's 50 Greatest Leaders    World's Most Admired Companies    All Rankings        Automotive    Careers    Design    Energy & Environment    Executive Travel    Finance    Commentary    Health    International    Leadership    Luxury    Markets    Most Powerful Women    Retail    Sports    Technology    The Ledger    Venture    Photography    Podcasts    Newsletters    Magazine    Fortune Knowledge Group    Fortune Data Store    Fortune Conferences    TIME Health        Digital Health    Discovering Luxury    Innovation By Design    Looking Forward    State of the Market    MPW Mentorship    The 21st Century Corporation    Mastering the Market        Subscribe    Give a Gift    Customer Service      Stay Connected                                                                               Travel      yellowstone        Yellowstone Supervolcano Could Erupt Sooner Than We Thought. Here’s What You Need to Know.                                                          *** EXCLUSIVE ***
                
                YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, WY - MAY 2016: The contrast spectrum of colours in one of the Yellowstone pools, taken in May 2016, in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, United States.
                
                WITNESSING the beautiful spectrum of colours in Yellowstone National Park springs, you could almost forget youre standing on a supervolcano way past its eruption due date. The extraterrestrial-looking mineral-rich pools are caused by bacteria and thermophiles growing around the edges, creating the striking colours. The heat from three super eruptions thousands of years ago still powers the parks geysers, hot springs, fumaroles and mud pots, indicating how frighteningly active this volcano is directly under visitors feet.
                
                PHOTOGRAPH BY Russell Pearson / Barcroft Images 
                
                London-T:+44 207 033 1031 E:hello@barcroftmedia.com -
                New York-T:+1 212 796 2458 E:hello@barcroftusa.com -
                New Delhi-T:+91 11 4053 2429 E:hello@barcroftindia.com www.barcroftmedia.com (Photo credit should read Russell Pearson /Barcroft Images / Barcroft Media via Getty Images)  Barcroft Media via Getty Images        By Grace Donnelly  October 12, 2017       Did you know there’s a supervolcano in Yellowstone National Park? Maybe you’ve heard that it could erupt with much less advance warning than expected ?  Researchers from Arizona State University spent weeks studying fossilized ash deposits from the Yellowstone volcano and recently shared their findings. The minerals in these deposits revealed that the critical changes in temperature and composition preceding an eruption build up over a matter of decades , rather than thousands of years as scientists originally thought.  “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” Hannah Shamloo, a graduate student at Arizona State University who worked on the research, told The New York Times .  This is an alarming thing for a volcanologist to say. The good news is that scientists are likely just decades away from being able to more accurately predict when an eruption would occur.      Sometimes knowing more about the world around us makes us feel more in control of our lives and survival. And sometimes knowing more only underscores how small and helpless we are compared to the forces of nature on the angry rock where we reside.  Here are some more facts about supervolcanoes that may or may not make you feel any better.  Is Yellowstone the only supervolcano to worry about?  No, of course not. There are about 20 others around the world and three others, besides the Yellowstone supervolcano, in the U.S. Scientists suspect that one of them erupts every 100,000 years or so .  While Yellowstone hasn’t had a super-eruption in 631,000 years, others have been active more recently. Campi Flegri , a supervolcano in Italy whose name translates to “burning fields,” had a super-eruption 15,000 years ago.    Campi Flegri is in a “critical state,” according to researchers in Italy. It’s due for an eruption soon, but it would be a minor event compared to the 72 cubic miles of molten rock it spewed in its most notorious eruption 39,000 years ago, called Campanian Ignimbrite, that likely contributed to the extinction of the Neanderthals .  What areas would a Yellowstone eruption affect?  If the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts, it could shoot out more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of rock and ash into the air .  That’s 250 cubic miles. That’s more than three times as large as the Campanian Ignimbrite eruption in Italy, which created a sulfurous cloud that floated more than 1,200 miles away to hang over Russia . That’s 2,500 times more material than Mount St. Helens expelled in 1980, killing 57 people.      An eruption at Yellowstone would result in a cloud of ash more than 500 miles wide , stretching across nearly the entire western United States.  The explosion could be so incredibly large that it could plunge the entire planet into a volcanic winter . That means it would be impossible to grow crops and current food stores would only last about 74 days, according to a 2012 estimate by the United Nations (though innovations in farming may mean that food could be grown underground).  Will a supervolcano eruption end life on Earth?  None of this sounds ideal, but how does it rank in terms of apocalyptic near-future possibilities? According to NASA, supervolcano eruptions are a bigger danger to life on Earth than any asteroid.  Luckily NASA has a plan to neutralize supervolcano threats . It would cost approximately $3.4 billion and involves drilling down just over 6 miles into the volcano in order to release heat and hopefully avoid a violent eruption.      This plan could cool the supervolcano over the course of hundreds or even thousands of years. There’s another bonus: It would become a source of geothermal energy, too. But there are considerable risks, too. It could trigger the eruption it’s meant to save us from.  How likely is it that the Yellowstone supervolcano will erupt?  Despite the fact that this new research shows conditions leading up to supervolcano eruption could occur in several decades, the chances that you will personally experience an explosion of this scale are still low.  The odds of the Yellowstone supervolcano erupting within a given year are one in 730,000, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Here’s a little perspective: Those odds are significantly better than your chances of winning the lottery and only slightly worse than the chance you’ll be struck by lightning .                  SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT        You May Like                      Stories From      Read More      Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up now to receive FORTUNE's best content, special offers, and much more.    SUBSCRIBE                       EDIT POST                                 Subscribe & Save  Subscribe today and save 79% off the cover price.    SUBSCRIBE NOW                  Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up now to receive FORTUNE's best content, special offers, and much more.    SUBSCRIBE                                         40 Under 40  100 Best Companies to Work For  Fortune 500  Global 500  Most Powerful Women in Business  World's 50 Greatest Leaders  World's Most Admired Companies  All Rankings       Home  Automotive  Careers  Design  Energy & Environment  Executive Travel  Finance  Commentary       Health  International  Leadership  Luxury  Markets  Most Powerful Women  Retail  Sports       Technology  The Ledger  Venture  Photography  Podcasts  Videos  Newsletters  Magazine       Fortune Knowledge Group  Fortune Data Store  Fortune Conferences  TIME Health  Customer Service  Site Map  Privacy Policy  Advertising       Subscribe  Give a Gift  Ad Choices  Terms of Use  Your California Privacy Rights  Time Inc. Careers     © 2018 Time Inc. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy ( Your California Privacy Rights ). Fortune may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Interactive Data . ETF and Mutual Fund data provided by Morningstar , Inc. Dow Jones Terms & Conditions: http://www.djindexes.com/mdsidx/html/tandc/indexestandcs.html . S&P; Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions .                                                                         Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express.         Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter                 Login    Register          Apps  Puzzles  Horoscopes  Shop  Paper      14 °C         HOME   News    Showbiz & TV    Sport    Comment    Finance    Travel    Entertainment    Life & Style      UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries   Home News Science Yellowstone about to blow? Scientists warning over SUPER-VOLCANO that could kill MILLIONS                Yellowstone about to blow? Scientists warning over SUPER-VOLCANO that could kill MILLIONS  SCIENTISTS have warned the world is in "volcano season" and there is up to a 10% chance of an eruption soon killing millions of people and devastating the planet.    By Jon Austin  Jon Austin     PUBLISHED:  13:05, Thu, Mar 31, 2016  | UPDATED: 22:38, Thu, Mar 31, 2016            GETTY Volcanoes are the biggest threat to human survival, claim scientists Instances of volcanic eruptions are their highest for 300 years and scientists fear a major one that could kill millions and devastate the planet is a real possibility. Experts at the European Science Foundation said volcanoes – especially super-volcanoes like the one at Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, which has a caldera measuring 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km) - pose more threat to Earth and the survival of humans than asteroids, earthquakes, nuclear war and global warming. There are few real contingency plans in place to deal with the ticking time bomb, which they conclude is likely to go off within the next 80 years.       The world's most dangerous active volcanoes include Yellowstone, Mount Vesuvius in Campagnia, Italy, and Popocatépetl i near Mexico City. If any of them or other massive volcanic peaks suffered a major eruption the team said millions of people would die and earth’s atmosphere would be poisoned with ash and other toxins "beyond the imagination of anything man’s activity and global warming could do over 1,000 years. The chance of such as eruption happening at one of the major volcanoes within 80 years is put at five to ten per cent by the experts.   Related articles       First view of mega asteroid so BIG 'it could trigger EARTHQUAKES'...       Multiple 'MEGA EARTHQUAKES' could strike ANY DAY putting millions...     GETTY Yellowstone does not appear like many volcanoes but is believed to have the most magma underneath   Related articles       Magma reservoir under Yellowstone National Park 'one of world's...       ENORMOUS supervolcano the size of Yellowstone found on Mars     There are already fears that Yellowstone could blow any time within the next 70 years on a scale that would wiped out the western USA and affect the course of global history. The report - “Extreme Geo-hazards: Reducing the Disaster Risk and Increasing Resilience,” warns global government's preparations for such happenings are virtually non-existent. It said: "Although in the last few decades earthquakes have been the main cause of fatalities and damage, the main global risk is large volcanic eruptions that are less frequent but far more impactfull than the largest earthquakes. “Due to their far-reaching effects on climate, food security, transportation, and supply chains, these events have the potential to trigger global disaster and catastrophe. "The cost of response and the ability to respond to these events is beyond the financial and political capabilities of any individual country.”     Yellowstone super volcano in pictures  Wed, February 14, 2018  The volcano at Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming and Montana sits atop a huge reserve of magma and last erupted 640,000 years ago          Play slideshow        Getty Images   1 of 18    Belgian Pool, hot spring in the Upper Geyser Basin of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming                      Related articles       'Cigar-shaped' UFO spotted hovering over erupting Mexican volcano       REVEALED: Pluto's 3.5-mile high ice volcano that means dwarf...                                         Latest videos        Ant McPartlin news: Ant’s wife Lisa Armstrong likes cryptic post hinting at reunion         EastEnders: BBC continuity announcer leaves fans in hysterics with Phil and Mel remark         Britain’s Got Talent 2018: Amanda Holden and Alesha Dixon bring back seriously racy frocks         Royal baby: Bookies odds put THIS girl's name as favourite         Cheryl Cole and Liam Payne: Star ‘wants another baby’ to ’get relationship back on track’                                   Stonehenge SHOCK: Monument 'PRE-DATES humans' says archaeologist          God Particle will eventually DESTROY the universe - physicists in Doomsday claim          Yellowstone volcano eruption update: How volcano is 40,000 years OVERDUE an eruption          Disturbing child-size sex robot reduces BBC presenter to tears in SHOCKING footage          LIFE ON MARS: European spacecraft poised for groundbreaking Red Planet mission          Antarctic voyage aims to find Endurance, Shackleton's lost ship, miles beneath the waves          Jupiter in pictures: NASA’s Juno spacecraft captures stunning image of gas giant          Jupiter’s Triangle: How to see Jupiter’s Triangle in April night sky          Earthquake strikes US: California, Oklahoma, Texas and Nebraska hit in quick succession          Solar Storm WARNING: Solar flare to blast Earth with intense radiation TODAY      Daily Express                    SEARCH          CONNECT WITH US    Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter    Check us on Google+    Subscribe to our rss feed      TODAY'S PAPER       Tuesday, 10th April 2018  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
                    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
                    newspaper archive.          News    UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries        Latest News    Brexit  European Union  Theresa May  Angela Merkel  Donald Trump  The Queen  Kate Middleton  Meghan Markle  Diesel  Cancer  Diabetes  Dementia  YouTube      Showbiz & TV    TV & Radio  Celebrity News        Sport    Football  Stats  Transfer news  Premier League  Manchester United  Liverpool  Arsenal  Chelsea  Tottenham Hotspur  Manchester City  West Ham  Everton  Celtic  Rangers  Golf  F1  Boxing  Tennis  UFC  Cricket  Rugby Union  Racing        Pictures    Pics  Celebrity Galleries  Royal Galleries  Sport Galleries      Comment    Express Comment  Columnists  Beachcomber      Finance    City & Business  Personal Finance  The Crusader  Retirement      Travel    Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News      Entertainment    Films  Gaming  Theatre  Books  Music  Puzzles        Life & Style    Life  Style  Health  Cars  Garden  Food  Property  Diets  Tech  Saturday  Win  S Mag  Top 10 Facts      EXPRESS.CO.UK    Sitemap  Site Archive  Contact Us  Report a Tech Issue  Advertising  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Terms & Conditions  Developed by Netro42  Syndication and Licensing  Clarifications and Corrections          Daily Star    OK! Magazine    new! Magazine    Star Magazine    Copyright ©2018 Express Newspapers.
            "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.                                                        Chill. Yellowstone's Volcano Isn't About to Destroy Us All Sign In Subscribe business culture gear ideas science security transportation photo video backchannel Search business culture gear ideas science security transportation photo video backchannel Sign In Photo Video Backchannel Magazine Wired Insider Get Our Newsletter WIRED’s biggest stories delivered to your inbox. submit Author: Erik Klemetti Erik Klemetti science 01.11.16 02:13 pm Chill. Yellowstone's Volcano Isn't About to Destroy Us All Old faithful geyser. Richard Mitchell/Getty Images Share share tweet comment email It seems like every year about now, the media decides it is time for yet another Yellowstone scare-mongering session . Over the past few weeks, a number of articles and interviews have made some outlandish claims about the chances of a massive Yellowstone eruption. Yet, all this kerfuffle has come with absolutely no change in the state of Yellowstone itself. Instead, this tempest is purely the product of media " churnalism " that turns very benign source material into panic, doom, and horror. This time around, the Yellowstone noise is loosely based on a disaster preparedness report from the European Science Foundation. The study, called Extreme Geohazards: Reducing the Disaster Risk and Increasing Resilience , isn't new scientific research but rather a position paper that makes the bold claim that "hey, wouldn't it be great if we even thought about being prepared for a large volcanic eruption?" It isn't even solely focused on volcanoes, but makes the point that large volcanic eruptions—the same size or larger than the 1815 eruption of Tambora —are potentially a larger threat to lives and property than we give them credit. Yet somehow, this simple study has been distorted. Many articles claim the scientists are announcing that Yellowstone will erupt at any moment and we're all doomed and yada yada yada. The articles say things like " the earth is actually in “volcano season,” * *(nope), that " volcanic eruptions have occurred at their highest rate in 300 years " (again, nope), that " super-volcanoes could erupt within the next 80 years ." (They could. And the Browns might win the Super Bowl, too.) In my mind, the most egregious claim is that "scientists predict that the Yellowstone volcano will erupt within 70 years." That last statement, in itself, is very telling. Never are the scientists named in any of these articles. Never is that statement linked back to an actual source. No self-respecting volcanologist would ever say such a thing—and, more importantly, the geologists at the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory have never, ever even implied such a thing. So, is it in the actual ESF study? Well, I did some digging and found the following: The number of times Yellowstone is mentioned in the 70+ page report: 2 (once for the date of its last massive eruption and once in the reference list for that date). The number of times report talks about an impending Yellowstone eruption in the next 70 years: zero. none. never. The number of times report even mentions the idea of a major Tambora or worse eruption definitely happening in next 70 years: absolutely nowhere . What about the notion that the Earth is in a supposed "volcano season" with more eruptions in the last 300 years? The number of references to "volcano season"? Z____ero . The report very briefly discusses the idea of a "flareup", where there may be an increase in very large eruptions in different parts of the world but (a) we're not in one and (b) there is no indication we are headed towards one. Flareups are separated by millions or tens of millions of years. Even if it is the case, "volcano season" as a hypothesis claims that during certain seasons of the year, there may be slightly more eruptions—and there is very little agreement that such a thing actually exists . It does not mean we are in any period of heightened activity (and we're not). The number of times the study says there are more eruptions now? None. So, where did these completely wrong ideas arise? My guess is that we're seeing the results of the internet's massive game of telephone, in which some of the earlier (mostly terrible) articles about the ESF study tried to tie it into Yellowstone and "volcano season." Somehow, we got to the point where all the subsequent articles parroted and distorted the those early articles and the people writing those article couldn't be bothered to read , or even peruse, the actual source material. Physicist Michio Kaku even showed up on Fox News to spread more scaremongering with wrong/misleading information. I mean, could we really not find any volcanologist or geologist to intelligently discuss the study or Yellowstone's chance of activity? The laziness of current media science coverage means we get shoddy reporting, inappropriate "experts" and spreading of nothing but false or misleading information. Where does this leave us? Well, as I have mentioned before about Yellowstone , you should rarely trust any reports about an impending eruption of Yellowstone, unless it is coming from the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory . Right now, the chances of a massive Yellowstone caldera eruption within the next century are infinitesimally small. Even if any eruption at Yellowstone were to happen, it is much more likely to be small eruption , maybe on the scale of Mount St. Helens in 1980. Currently, there are no signs, no evidence, nothing to suggest any eruption is in the works. Even the study that says there is a lot of magma under Yellowstone (and there is) also adds that it is less eruptible magma . In all, Yellowstone is a pretty quiet place. It definitely wouldn't appear in my list of the top 10 volcanoes likely to erupt in the next century. Heck, it likely wouldn't even be in my top 100. That 5 to 10 percent chance of a major eruption somewhere in the world is based on looking at how often we've had Tambora-scale or larger eruptions. This means that it could happen next week or not for 300 years. The probability is low: 90 percent of the time, no eruption Tambora-scale or bigger occurs. If you want to be concerned about the hazards posed by a volcano in the near term, there are a lot better candidates out there . The media loves to make a big deal that if a Tambora or greater happens, civilization would end and chaos would ensue. Well, even in the 1800s, when Tambora caused the " Year Without a Summer ," civilization survived. Even with our more interconnected planet and a larger population population, you need to remember that really, as a society, we are also more resilient. We can absorb disasters as materials and foods can be transported easily, medicine exists to stop the disease that can follow an eruption and technology allows us to better understand if an eruption is going to occur—thus, we can prepare. Society can survive catastrophes, but media wants us to think otherwise. So, has the status of a potential eruption at Yellowstone changed?__ No.__ Should you live in fear of Yellowstone? No. Should you be prepared for natural disasters ?__ Yes. __That's the real key. The ESF study's main point is that we need to think now about these volcanic hazards. We need to invest now in monitoring infrastructure so we can carefully look for clues that an eruption might be in the works. What it doesn't say is that volcanic armageddon is around the corner—and don't let the media try to convince you otherwise. #Indonesia #volcanoes #Yellowstone Most Popular gear 4 Best Smartphones of 2018: Guide to Android, Samsung Galaxy, iPhone Author: Jeffrey Van Camp Jeffrey Van Camp gear How to Check If Cambridge Analytica Could Access Your Facebook Data Author: Brian Barrett Brian Barrett transportation Porsche's 919 Hybrid Evo Wallops F1's Fastest Cars Author: Jack Stewart Jack Stewart More Stories View Comments Sponsored Stories Powered By Outbrain Megan Molteni With Some Structure, Stem Cells Might Still Stop Vision Loss Adam Rogers Too Much Engineering Has Made Mississippi River Floods Worse Sarah Scoles The Woman Who Knows Everything About the Universe Stephen Wolfram *2001: A Space Odyssey* Predicted the Future—50 Years Ago Matt Simon Why These Bumblebees Are Wearing Itty-Bitty QR Codes More science Math What Random Walks in Multiple Dimensions Teach You About Life Author: Rhett Allain Rhett Allain Genetics Helix Takes Clinical Genetic Testing Straight to Consumers Author: Megan Molteni Megan Molteni NASA Inside the Cleanroom Where the Mars Lander Preps for Launch Author: Matt Simon Matt Simon Thought Experiments New Brain Maps With Unmatched Detail May Change Neuroscience Author: Monique Brouillette Monique Brouillette gallery The Case of the Missing Dark Matter Author: Shannon Stirone Shannon Stirone Math Why Winning in Rock-Paper-Scissors Isn’t Everything Author: Patrick Honner Patrick Honner We Recommend Powered By Outbrain Adam Rogers A Month's Worth of Rain Will Hit California This Weekend Robbie Gonzalez A Brain-Boosting Prosthesis Moves From Rats to Humans Eric Niiler From AI to Russia, Here’s How Estonia’s President Is Planning for the Future Rhett Allain Do You Weigh More at the Equator or at the North Pole? Marcello Rossi Will a Huge New Flood Barrier Save Venice? Get Our Newsletter WIRED’s biggest stories delivered to your inbox. submit Subscribe Advertise Site Map Press Center FAQ Accessibility Help Customer Care Contact Us Securedrop T-Shirt Collection Newsletter Wired Staff Jobs RSS CNMN Collection Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (effective 3/21/12) and privacy policy (effective 3/21/12). Affiliate link policy . Your California privacy rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast .                                                 No, Yellowstone's Supervolcano Isn't Going to Wipe Out Life on Earth Anytime Soon                           Subscribe                 U.S.    Politics    World    Tech    Time Health    Entertainment    Subscribe                                    Home    U.S.    Politics    World    Business    Tech    Health    TIME Health    Motto    Entertainment    Science    Newsfeed    Living    Sports    History    The TIME Vault    Magazine    Ideas    TIME Labs    Money    LIFE    Photography    Videos    The Goods    Shop TIME    Press Room    TIME Guide to Happiness    The 100 Most Influential People    American Voices    Finding Home    Opioids    Longevity 2017    Looking Forward    Next Generation Leaders    Person of the Year    Space 2017    Top of the World    Workarounds    Time Cover Store    TIME for KiDS    TIME Edge        Subscribe    Give a Gift    Newsletters    Feedback    Privacy Policy    Your California Privacy Rights    Terms of Use    Ad Choices    RSS    TIME Apps    Advertising    Reprints and Permissions    Site Map    Help    Customer Service      Stay Connected                                                                         U.S.      Yellowstone National Park        No, Yellowstone's Supervolcano Isn't Going to Wipe Out Life on Earth Anytime Soon                                                Magmatic heat from the volcano underneath yellow springs in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, in May.  Russell Pearson—Barcroft Images/Getty Images        By Melissa Chan  October 13, 2017       If you’re worried a supervolcano lying beneath Yellowstone National Park could erupt and plunge the planet into a volcanic winter, you shouldn’t be.  While a future eruption — a prospect widely reported this week after new research — is possible, geologists say it’s incredibly unlikely. The odds that Yellowstone’s sleeping supervolcano will erupt within a century and cause massive devastation are one in 10,000, which is about as likely as a very large asteroid hitting Earth, according to Jacob Lowenstern, a research geologist at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS).  “It’s not impossible to rule out, but it’s a remote possibility,” said Lowenstern, who used to run the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory, which monitors volcanic activity.  Supervolcanoes have the power to spew more than 1,000 cubic kilometers of debris and hot ash into the air when they erupt, which would have catastrophic consequences, including changes to global climate and agricultural devastation, according to the USGS. They get labeled supervolcanoes only after they’ve already erupted to that magnitude. There are between five and 10 active supervolcanoes in the world, Lowenstern said. The most recent supereruption happened about 27,000 years ago in New Zealand. Long before that, there were two supereruptions at Yellowstone — the first happened 2.1 million years ago and the second occurred 631,000 years ago, according to the USGS.      Many Americans grew concerned that a supereruption was looming after the New York Times detailed a project from a research team at Arizona State University. The team researched the events leading up to the last large eruption at Yellowstone. They found changes in the supervolcano’s system known to help trigger supereruptions, like magma flow, can develop faster than previously thought, according to the Times . “It’s shocking how little time is required to take a volcanic system from being quiet and sitting there to the edge of an eruption,” Hannah Shamloo, an ASU graduate student who was part of the research team, told the newspaper.  Many people mistakenly took that to mean Yellowstone’s supervolcano was overdue for a massive eruption. Christy Till, who was also part of the research team, later tweeted that the research team at no point suggested Yellowstone’s supervolcano was expected to erupt. “All signs of activity at Yellowstone are normal,” she wrote. “There are NO signs of eruption as some media outlets reporting.”    Lowenstern agreed, dispelling the notion that there’s a cycle to supereruptions. He added that there is no way to tell exactly when or if it will even erupt, but any kind of eruption in the next 100 years is very unlikely.  Since the last supereruption at Yellowstone, there have been dozens of other eruptions at the national park that were minor. “There’s no requirement that it has to have another large eruption,” Lowenstern said.                        SPONSORED FINANCIAL CONTENT        You May Like                      Stories From      Read More      Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more    SUBSCRIBE                       EDIT POST                                 Subscribe & Save  Subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price.    SUBSCRIBE NOW                  Sign Up for Our Newsletters  Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health, money and more    SUBSCRIBE                                     Home  U.S.  Politics  World  Business  Tech  Health  Science       Entertainment  Newsfeed  Living  Ideas  Parents  Sports  History  The TIME Vault       Magazine  Subscribe  Give a Gift  Time Cover Store  TIME for KiDS  TIME Edge  The Goods  Press Room  Shop TIME  Newsletters       Customer Service  Site Map  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Terms of Use  Advertising  Ad Choices  Careers     © 2017 Time Inc. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy ( Your California Privacy Rights ). TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.       This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Supervolcanoes  Yellowstone National Park  Volcanoes  Risk and Risks Volcanoes: What is the probability of the Yellowstone supervolcano erupting in the next 10 years? http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/technology-science/science/supervolcano-under-yellowstone-could-leave-854457 Update Cancel Answer Wiki 4 Answers   Zac Shaw , Music's Biggest Fan / Digital Polymath Answered Jan 13, 2012 The world's leading scientists would not be able to answer this question with any certainty. Even estimating the probability of a Yellowstone eruption is something of a shot in the dark because when we talk about geological events we're talking on a timeline stretching millions and billions of years. However, we can make some broad estimates, and based on those estimates, there is reason to believe that an eruption in the next 10 years is more possible now that it was in the entire history of human civilization. This is because scientists have estimated that the Yellowstone Caldera erupts roughly every 640,000 years. The last three major eruptions were 2.1 million, 1.3 million and just over 640,000 years ago respectively. When I say "roughly", the margin of error is tens of thousands of years. Therefore, while we are technically "overdue" for a Yellowstone eruption given it's been over 640,000 years since the last one -- it's essentially just as likely it will happen tomorrow as 10,000 years from now. Furthermore, while there is ongoing seismic activity at the Yellowstone Caldera, scientists have not seen any major developments that hint at a large eruption. It's likely, but not certain, there would be some degree of warning detected by seismologists and volcanologists before a cataclysmic eruption. 3.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Diversyfund Investing in top performing real estate shouldn't be complicated. Create your diversified real estate investment portfolio through modern crowdfunding platform. Learn More at diversyfund.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below If a super volcano erupts in Yellowstone national park, where is the safest place to be? What can be done to prepare for the eruption of Yellowstone's supervolcano? Will the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano drive humans into extinction? Is Yellowstone's supervolcano about to erupt? How far in advance would we know? What will really happen when the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts? Ask New Question   Roger Gilmartin , Traveling the world and learning wherever I go Answered Mar 29, 2017 · Author has 3.2k answers and 2.2m answer views Just to understand terms, a “super volcanic eruption” indicates an eruption where more than 1000 cubic kilometers (250 cubic miles) of magma is involved. As such, Yellowstone has had at least three eruptions that qualify: 2.1 million years ago, 1.2 million years ago, then 640 k years ago. The Yellowstone eruption area collapsed on itself, forming the three caldera(s) that straddle the Idaho / Wyoming / Montana state lines. By comparison, Mt St Helens (which eruption I witnessed) blasted off 1.6 cubic kilometers (1 cubic mile) of material. That said, Mt St Helens was not a major volcanic eruption, in my view, compared to other eruptions within the couple of centuries (Krakatoa, Pinatubo, etc.) Another comparison, in 1815, Mt Tambora (Indonesia) underwent the largest and most deadly eruption in recorded history. That eruption (VEI 7) pumped out enormous amounts of dust and ash, killed tens of thousands of people, destroyed crops and vegetation, and even caused tsunamis. The ash cloud, circulating around the globe, caused a severe summertime cold snap in 1816, resulting in killer frosts in New England and Europe. We know that the magma still lies beneath Yellowstone. Yellowstone also sits atop a hot spot / mantle plume that still provides the heat to drive all the geo-thermal activity today. Moreover, Yellowstone has the potential to erupt (not just as a super-volcano) as “less than a super volcano” so it’s not an either-or situation. For example, regional earthquakes have altered some of the geothermal activity from time to time. It is a highly active area, that has similarities to places such as Iceland (which straddles the Mid-Atlantic Ridge) and Hawaii (which sits atop a hot spot / mantle plume). Geologic activity at Yellowstone has remained fairly constant over the last 30 years, and a “super-volcano / caldera producing event” is unlikely to occur in the next 1000 or even 10,000 years. Each of the major eruptions at Yellowstone caldera happened at least 650,000 years apart; in some cases 1 million years apart, so they are exceedingly rare. What are the actual chances that Yellowstone erupts as a less than “super-volcano” in the next ten years? Despite what the British tabloids say (after all they are trying to sell papers) the chances are “Near Zero” (not zero, but near zero). What are the actual chances that Yellowstone erupts as a full-on “super-volcano” in the next ten years? Nearer to Zero than the chances of erupting as a less-than-super-volcano. 369 Views   Dave Mcmurray , phd Life and Living, People of Canada (1943) Answered Jun 28, 2017 · Author has 183 answers and 54k answer views Oh Goody! lets see what happens when we apply Bayes theorem. Based on previous history, we know that it can erupt, so there are only two valid possibilities: Within 10 years, it will erupt—or it won’t. We really don’t know much more than that. We DO know that it has erupted more than once, and we know that it is NOT DORMANT. We also know that with only three prior events, of (loosely guessed) age, so the median frequency of these eruptions is ——unreliable. Three events do NOT form a pattern. Not without other information. We also don’t know how the current activity compares to previous eruptions, so what happens, given current activity, is completely unpredictable. . —so either possibility is equally valid. Either it will—or it won’t. With me so far? The answer to your question: What is the probability of Yellowstone (or a lot of other crap) erupting in the next year ? .500! 243 Views · View Upvoters   Matthew Bennett , Musical Adult Fan of LEGO with an interest in earthquakes Answered May 13, 2015 · Author has 204 answers and 147.8k answer views order of magnitude calculation: Yellowstone erupts every million years or so, so the probability that it would erupt in a ten year period is approximately 1/100,000, 0.00001, or 0.001% Basically, too small to worry about it. 893 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions Apart from Yellowstone, are there any other known "super-volcanoes"? Which supervolcano is likely to erupt next? If you knew with certainty that the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts in exactly 10 years, would you be able to do something? The Yellowstone volcano is going to erupt in 3 hours, what do you do? What would the US government do if they found out Yellowstone’s super volcano was going to erupt in 2 years? Is it possible to stop Yellowstone from erupting? What are the odds of the Yellowstone volcano erupting? Have scientists predicted when the Yellowstone Supervolcano will erupt? Which volcano is most likely to erupt next? If the Yellowstone super volcano were to erupt, could the US ever recover? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions If a super volcano erupts in Yellowstone national park, where is the safest place to be? What can be done to prepare for the eruption of Yellowstone's supervolcano? Will the eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano drive humans into extinction? Is Yellowstone's supervolcano about to erupt? How far in advance would we know? What will really happen when the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts? Apart from Yellowstone, are there any other known "super-volcanoes"? Which supervolcano is likely to erupt next? If you knew with certainty that the Yellowstone supervolcano erupts in exactly 10 years, would you be able to do something? The Yellowstone volcano is going to erupt in 3 hours, what do you do? What would the US government do if they found out Yellowstone’s super volcano was going to erupt in 2 years? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact