                                                   Metro    Sports    Business & Tech    Opinion    Politics    Lifestyle    Arts    Cars    Real Estate      Most popular on BostonGlobe.com        Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate         Tom Ashbrook asks: Is there room for redemption?         The troubled truth behind Masters’ champ Patrick Reed         How much of ‘Chappaquiddick’ is actually true?                      Today's Paper    Magazine    Obituaries    Weather    Comics    Crossword    The Big Picture                        Menu                         Lifestyle     Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate      Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate                       Evan Horowitz  Get ready. Your baby is coming early.                 Share via e-mail     To   Add a message   Your e-mail                                              Print           Comments                                               By Evan Horowitz  Globe Staff  July 17, 2014        When you’re pregnant, a lot of conversations involve the same few questions. Are you having a boy or a girl? Have you picked a name? Did you hear about this great book (or great sleeping pillow or great technique to make your unborn baby smarter)? Above all, though, the question you get asked is: When are you due? The obvious answer is that you’re due on your “due date,” the magic day that your doctor calculated based on a standard 40-week pregnancy. But as it happens, the odds of delivering on your due date are extremely small. Only about 1 in 30 women give birth on their due date. You are more likely to give birth a week early than you are to give birth “on time.”  When do women really give birth?  The most likely birthdate is seven days early, according to a huge sample of birth information put together for the Globe by Brookings Institute researcher and WhenToExpect.com co-creator Matt Chingos.             Advertisement     These figures include not just “spontaneous” deliveries but also planned C-sections and planned inductions. It’s possible that these procedures, which are commonly performed in the week before the actual due date, account for some of the early births. Nevertheless, other researchers who have screened out planned births and looked just at spontaneous births have found a similar pattern , which suggests that babies still like to show up early, even when they’re uncoaxed.  Do first children arrive just as early?     Get The Weekender in your inbox:  The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond.        Sign Up      Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here    First children tend to stay put for a little longer. On average, they show up two or three days early. Second and third children arrive five to six days early.            Does it matter if it’s a boy or a girl?   Sex doesn’t seem to matter much. Boys and girls arrive at roughly the same time.            How about younger moms vs. older moms?  The older you are, the more likely you are to give birth early. Teenage moms tend to give birth about three days early, while moms in their 40s trek to the hospital about a week in advance. Part of this is due to birth order, as teenage moms are much more likely to be carrying their first children.            Can these numbers tell me when I’m going to give birth?  Unfortunately, no. At best, they might give you a better sense of the odds and help you win some bets with friends. Still, if there is one clear lesson in the data, it’s this: don’t wait until the last minute. Pack your hospital bag, settle on a name, stock up on sleep, and make sure your friends and family are primed to help. Chances are, your baby is coming sooner than you think.     More from Evan Horowitz:   Is it time for President Mike Bloomberg?  What if the polls are wrong?  How far can the stock market fall?  With opioids, can you fight addiction without causing pain?  Will the GE move really make a difference?     Evan Horowitz digs through data to find information that illuminates the policy issues facing Massachusetts and the United States. He can be reached at evan.horowitz@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @GlobeHorowitz       Loading comments...                                      Top 10 Trending Articles    Viewed  Commented  Shared       Most Popular in lifestyle            Real journalists. Real journalism.  Subscribe to The Boston Globe today.       Subscribe Now  Digital Access  Home Delivery  Gift Subscriptions  My Account  Manage my Account  Mobile Customer Service  Sign Up For Newsletters    Contact  Help  FAQs  Globe newsroom  Advertise  Order back issues    Social  Facebook  Twitter  Google+    More  ePaper  News in Education  Archives  Privacy policy  Terms of service  Terms of purchase  Work at Boston Globe Media   © 2018 Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC                                                                 News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                                               News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                  News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                             Live Science Health  Royal Baby: Are Firstborns More Likely to Be Late?  By Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer | July 15, 2013 04:42pm ET                            MORE           A newborn baby  Credit: Newborn baby via Shutterstock     The world is eagerly awaiting the birth of the royal baby, but considering this is Kate Middleton's first pregnancy, is the baby likely to be late?  Buckingham Palace has not provided an official due date for the baby but has said the newborn is expected in mid-July.  Babies don't always arrive when they're supposed to, and mothers often say firstborns tend to be late, although this conclusion is typically based on anecdotal reports. [See 11 Big Fat Pregnancy Myths ].  Recently, Allen Downey, a professor of computer science at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in Needham, Mass., did an analysis to find out if there was any truth to this old wives' tale. Downey studied a 2002 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention survey of 7,643 women, who reported 9,148 live births.  He found that first babies were, indeed, slightly more likely to be born late , at 41 weeks or later, compared with other babies (second-borns, third-borns, etc.)  The results showed that a firstborn baby has a 15 to 16 percent chance of being born late, compared with a 9 or 10 percent chance for other babies. Most babies were born at 39 weeks of pregnancy.  However, the study also found that firstborns were also more likely to be born early, at 37 weeks or earlier.  So, in general, firstborns were less likely to be born on time, said Downey, who is the author of " Think Stats " (O'Reilly Media, 2011). It's possible that first babies may be less likely to be on time because the date of conception is not accurate, Downey said.  Dr. Jill Rabin, chief of ambulatory care, obstetrics and gynecology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., noted that a baby's due date is an estimate, and it's normal for babies to arrive two weeks before or after that day. Therefore, although parents may perceive a baby to be "late" if it arrives two weeks after the due date, this is not really the case.  "When you're expecting a first baby...you're locked on to the due date, and you expect the baby on that due date," Rabin said. But even if a woman thinks she knows exactly when she conceived, "it still can be two weeks high or low, and it's considered normal," she added.  Rabin said there is no known biological reason why firstborn babies would be more likely to be early or late.  After 42 weeks of pregnancy, a baby is considered overdue, Rabin said, and doctors become concerned about complications, such as an aging placenta that is not able to deliver proper nutrition to the baby.   According to the Mayo Clinic , a woman may be more likely to have an overdue baby if the baby is male. Will the royal heir be a boy?   Follow Rachael Rettner @RachaelRettner . Follow LiveScience @livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Original article on LiveScience.com .       You'd Also Like         Length of a Healthy Pregnancy Surprisingly Variable  LiveScience         Standing for Long Hours During Pregnancy May Affect Babies' Growth  LiveScience         Middleton's 2nd Pregnancy: Is Short Spacing Healthy?  LiveScience         Nearly 1 in 4 Women Are Obese Before Pregnancy  LiveScience           Latest on Royal Baby: Are Firstborns More Likely to Be Late?       Vaginal Birth vs. C-Section: Pros & Cons         These 2 Genes May Increase the Risk for Extreme Morning Sickness         Pythons Are Cold-Blooded Killers, But At Least They're Not Negligent Mothers         Prenatal Genetic Screening Tests: Benefits & Risks         Woman Gives Birth in the Red Sea (But Here's Why You Shouldn't)         Little Legs, Big Impact: Baby's Kicks Pack a Punch in Mom's Womb           Author Bio     Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer   Rachael has been with Live Science since 2010. She has a masters degree in journalism from New York University's Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program. She also holds a Bachelor of Science in molecular biology and a Master of Science in biology from the University of California, San Diego.    Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer on                Science Newsletter: Subscribe    Submit      Follow Us                 Most Popular      If You Want Your Friend to Vaccinate Their Kids, Don't Try to Change Their Mind       65 Pounds of Plastic Trash Tore This Whale Apart From The Inside       How (and Where) Did Hannibal Cross the Alps? Experts Finally Have Answers       Have Archaeologists Discovered the Tomb of King Tut's Wife? Maybe.       This Pouched Rat Can Sniff Out Tuberculosis in Kids                         Home About Us    Company   Company Info  About Us  Contact Us  Advertise with Us  Using Our Content  Licensing & Reprints  Terms of Use  Copyright Policy  Privacy Policy     Network   Top Ten Reviews  Tom's Guide  Laptop Mag  Tom's Hardware  Business News Daily  Tom's IT Pro  Space.com  Live Science  Active Junky  ShopSavvy  AnandTech  Dignifyed       FOLLOW US            Subscribe    SUBMIT        Copyright © All Rights Reserved.                            Join Club Momme for exclusive access to giveaways, discounts and more!  Sign up                         Sign up  /  Login  to Mom.me!                  Sign up  /  Login           Pregnancy     Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy 101  Being Pregnant   Baby Names      The Kids     Baby  Toddler  Little Kid  Tween  Teen     Lifestyle     Food  Fashion & Beauty  Entertainment  Horoscopes  Pets   Home & DIY    Work & Career    Health      News      Community        Check Out Our Latest Videos    Pregnancy 101    Latina Mom           Join our new mom community!  join now    lets be social              About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquires    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us    2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                   Pregnancy  I Really Wanted to Be Pregnant ... Until I Was           Pregnancy  Baby Registry Items for the On-the-Go Mom           Pregnancy  #SorryNotSorry, No One Is Allowed in the Delivery Room Wi...                                           Pregnancy   How Accurate are Due Dates?                     by Shannon Philpott Apr 01, 2014      Photograph by Getty Images/PhotoAlto The anticipation of knowing exactly when your baby will be born is exciting. When a physician determines your due date, however, it's not always a guarantee of the day your child will be born. Due dates are determined based on a number of factors, including your menstrual cycles and the baby's measurements, which can predict your baby's expected date of delivery within a week or two. RELATED: Dr. Drai Evaluating Your Cycles Due dates are accurate if you have regular monthly periods; obstetricians often calculate the due date based on the first day of a woman's last menstrual period, says Dr. Draion Burch, Pennsylvania-based obstetrician-gynecologist. However, women who have irregular periods can have inaccurate dates determined, he says. Burch recommends confirming due dates within the first trimester to improve the accuracy of the due date. Analyzing Baby's Size Due dates are also calculated based on the baby's body length during an ultrasound between eight and 12 weeks of pregnancy, according to Dr. Sachchidananda Maiti, England-based obstetrician and gynecologist. This method is more accurate than calculating through menstrual dates, he says, but it is not as good at dating your due date if you had assisted conception with fertility drugs and treatments. Doctors usually give women a range between 38 and 42 weeks of a pregnancy as the anticipated delivery time. Deciphering Accuracy Due dates are often referred to as estimated due dates because a woman's cycle and the baby's growth can vary, says Deena Blumenfeld, Pennsylvania-based Lamaze certified childbirth educator. "Only 5 percent of women give birth on their due dates, so we often tell moms that it is more like a due months," she says. Although premature delivery is possible, most women deliver between 37 and 42 weeks. Women aren't officially overdue until after 42 weeks of pregnancy, says Blumenfeld. RELATED: Shining Light Prenatal Education Measuring Baby's Growth Although your due date may be determined based on an ultrasound or your menstrual cycle, a margin of error with the date's accuracy is possible because of the baby's growth, says Blumenfeld. Babies grow and develop at different rates in the womb, just as they do on the outside, she says. "There is a range of normal for fetal development and that affects when labor begins," says Blumenfeld.   Explore More:  being pregnant         RELATED  Tips on Sleeping Better in the Third Trimester                                   Popular on Mom.me          The Kids  10 Life-Changing Tips to Make Your Home So Much Cleaner           News  Why This Breast Milk Photo Is So Mind-Blowing           Baby  10 Dark Parenting Truths We Never Talk About           Baby  Must Know Rules for Visiting a New Mom           The Kids  10 Signs You’re Not Done Having Babies        More from pregnancy       I Really Wanted to Be Pregnant ... Until I Was     Mar 21, 2018                             Baby Registry Items for the On-the-Go Mom     Feb 27, 2018                             #SorryNotSorry, No One Is Allowed in the Delivery Room With Me     Feb 08, 2018                                  Baby Names Inspired by Olympic Gold Medalists     Feb 07, 2018                             I Never Loved My Husband More Than When I Was Giving Birth     Feb 06, 2018                             Grieving a Miscarriage Is The Loneliest Thing Ever     Feb 05, 2018                                  What to REALLY Expect the Second Pregnancy     Jan 29, 2018                             Eating These Foods Can Raise Baby's IQ     Jan 25, 2018                             8 Things You Need to Do Before You Have Your First Baby     Jan 19, 2018                           More Results           Mom.me is the modern mom’s parenting source. Sign up for our must read newsletter!  Join Now    let's be social                  About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquiries    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us     2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                     Sign up  /  Login           Pregnancy     Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy 101  Being Pregnant   Baby Names      The Kids     Baby  Toddler  Little Kid  Tween  Teen     Lifestyle     Food  Fashion & Beauty  Entertainment  Horoscopes  Pets   Home & DIY    Work & Career    Health      News      Community & Giveaways        Check Out Our Latest Videos    Pregnancy 101    Latina Mom           Mom.me is the modern mom’s parenting source. Sign up for our must read newsletter!  Join Now    lets be social              About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquires    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us    2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                    Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea  Try floating instead. By Jeanne Faulkner, R.N.  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email     I have two friends who are due at the end of August. Both are first timers, healthy and had fairly easy pregnancies. There's been a little nausea here and there and a few aches and pains, but other than that they've both been really fortunate to have lovely pregnancies. They're both eager to meet their daughters, but one is counting down the days to her due date like she's going on a cruise. "Twenty seven more days" she posts on her Facebook page. The date is so embedded in her mind that frankly I'm a little worried. What's going to happen when she gets close to her due date and there's no sign of labor? What if she cruises right on past it? Will she be disappointed and impatient? Will she start doubting her body? She can't cancel the trip, but she might be tempted to change her travel plans. My other friend is taking a more laid back approach. She knows she's going on a cruise pretty soon. She's packed and ready to go, but she's not sure of the actual launch date. If labor doesn't start by her due date, that's cool. A little sooner, a little later doesn't much matter. It's still going to be one heck of a big trip. I've written before that due dates are only an estimate of when your baby's going to arrive. It's not an etched in stone appointment. First time moms, if left alone to go into labor naturally tend to be pregnant for about 41 weeks and 1 day. Women who've had babies before tend to deliver around 40 weeks and 3 days. Only about 10% of women go longer than 42 weeks. That's average. Some deliver earlier and some go a little longer and it's almost always completely normal. A little frustrating, maybe, but still normal. Your due date is set at 40 weeks and many care providers emphasize that anything after 38 weeks is considered full term. Frankly I don't think that's cool. It just sets women up for disappointment. Two weeks before her due date she starts thinking "any day now." When her due date crawls past and nothing happens, it's disheartening. If she still has a week or so to go, it feels like torture. It also sets her up think she (or her doctor/midwife) needs to intervene to get things going. This is where a lot of inductions come from ; from the impression that since labor hasn't already started naturally, then it's probably never going to start unless somebody starts it with medicine. That's not terribly logical. Most of the time when women go past their due date, nothing's wrong with them or their babies. They're just not done yet. Let it be. Your body knows what to do so much better than you give it credit for. Unless there's some indication that there's a problem, just chill. It's going to happen. No one has ever been pregnant forever. I prefer the idea of a floating due date. I think it would be kinder and more accurate to tell women, "your baby will be here sometime near the end of August or beginning of September." Then, women won't think there's anything wrong with them. I've heard so many women say, "My body just wouldn't go into labor so my doctor had to induce me." Well, of course, your body will go into labor. That's what it was designed to do. Maybe it won't go into labor on one specific date, but geez, have a little patience and flexibility, will ya? I think women need a reward strategy for enduring the last days and weeks of pregnancy. It doesn't have to be anything big or expensive, but every day you go past your due date, give yourself a treat. Go to a movie, buy some new socks, make a pan of brownies, get someone to paint your toenails or give you a massage, watch a Sex and the City marathon. It doesn't really matter what the reward is, as long as it gives you something enjoyable to look forward to help take the sting out of waiting for labor. Due dates set the stage for the unpredictable nature of parenting. Labor is only the beginning. There are so many things you don't really have any control over. When those things come up, sometimes the best way of dealing with them is to just let it be. You don't always have to do anything when things aren't going exactly as expected. It's not going to be the cruise you planned on anyway. It's going to be a different trip altogether. Just sit back and wait for things to happen in their own good time. It's not about the schedule. It's not about the destination. It's about the journey. Jeanne Faulkner, R.N ., lives in Portland, Oregon with her husband and five children. More about Jeanne This Fit Pregnancy blog is intended for educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace medical advice from your physician. Before initiating any exercise program, diet or treatment provided by Fit Pregnancy, you should seek medical advice from your primary caregiver.            Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                  Menu      Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   X    Cancel  Join/Login    Close  Join Now  Log In  Subscribe  Getting Pregnant  Back Getting Pregnant  All Getting Pregnant Topics Ovulation Reproductive Age Maximizing Your Fertility Pre-Pregnancy Health Trying to Conceive Dealing With Infertility Genetics  Pregnancy  Back Pregnancy  All Pregnancy Topics Signs of Pregnancy Pregnancy Week-by-Week Giving Birth Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Symptoms Due Date Calculator Pregnancy Complications Fetal Development Gender Prediction Baby Showers  Baby Names  Back Baby Names  All Baby Names Topics Baby Girl Names Most Popular Names Names by Origin Twin Names Baby Boy Names Names by Religion Celebrity Baby Names Baby Name Quizzes  Baby  Back Baby  All Baby Topics Newborn Care Crying Baby Health Baby Development Safety Gear Breastfeeding Diapers Sleep Issues Feeding Nursery  Toddler  Back Toddler  All Toddler Topics Preschool Activities Behavior & Discipline Toddler Development Milestones Potty Training Starting School Health Safety Childcare  Big Kid  Back Big Kid  All Big Kid Topics Education Health Food & Nutrition Bullying & School Problems Child Development Safety Manners & Responsibility  Fun  Back Fun  All Fun Topics Birthdays Indoor Activities Outdoor Activities Arts & Crafts Printable Coloring Pages Kids' Entertainment Best Toys Holidays Family Vacation Ideas  Health  Back Health  All Health Topics ADD & ADHD Allergies Autism Cold & Flu Cough Down Syndrome Emergency Aid Fever Medication & Vitamins Obesity Rashes Stomach Aches Vaccines  Parenting  Back Parenting  All Parenting Topics Positive Parenting Parenting Style Celebrity Parents Family Dynamics Divorce Home Adoption Just for Mom Money Toy Recalls Stroller Recalls  Food  Back Food  All Food Topics Family Recipes Baby Food Toddler Finger Food Recipes Hints & Tips Healthy Eating Birthdays Holiday Recipes Quick & Easy Meals Food For Pregnant Women  Holiday  Back Holiday  All Holiday Topics 4th of July Halloween  Video  Shop  More  Back More Newsletters Contests ParentsIRL  Our Magazines  Back Our Magazines  Fit Pregnancy and Baby From the Latest Issue Emily Skye On Being Pregnant for the First Time: 'I Feel Like a Superhero!' 7 Soothing Cradles for Your Baby 5 Nursery Trends We Love  See More Pinterest Twitter  Parents  Subscribe to Parents From the Latest Issue 16 Tech Finds That Will Change Your Family’s Life 8 Night Time Favorite Baby Gear Boys vs Girls: How to Tailor Your Parenting Techniques  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Family Fun  Subscribe to Family Fun From the Latest Issue The 2018 FamilyFun Travel Awards Simplify Lunch: Mix-and-Match Ideas Your Kids Will Love 26 Fun (and Totally Extra) Ways to Decorate Your Dyed Easter Eggs  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Parents Latina From the Latest Issue How to Talk to Your Kids About Race 10 Best Kept Secrets from Cleaning Pros These Latina Moms Are Taking Over the Beauty Industry  See More Facebook  Ser Padres  Subscribe to Ser Padres From the Latest Issue 8 cosas que te dicen que tu hijo ya no es un bebÃ© (FOTOS) 6 mentiras que tu hijo necesita escuchar (FOTOS) GuÃ­a de disciplina online: corrige el comportamiento de tu hijo en 7 dÃ­as  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   Home Pregnancy & Birth Giving Birth Labor & Delivery The Truth About Due Dates The Truth About Due Dates  Only 5 percent of women give birth when they think they will. Read on to find out when your baby will make his appearance. By Lauren Picker from Parents Magazine  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Text  Email  Print 7 Must-Know Truths About Due Dates RELATED:  A New Test Can Predict Your Actual Due Date Bet on Unpredictability As a journalist who's accustomed to meeting deadlines, I wasn't surprised when, during my first pregnancy, I went into labor on my due date. The second time around was another matter. My due date came and went. And went, and went, and went. It wasn't until the day before my doctor planned to induce me—at nearly 42 weeks pregnant —that I finally went into labor. My experience brought home one of the essential truths of pregnancy: Your due date is anything but predictable. Still, your doctor needs to determine one that's as accurate as possible so that any necessary tests are done at the correct time. "And knowing how far along you are makes it easier for your obstetrician to see that your baby is growing properly," explains ob-gyn Joanne Stone, M.D., coauthor of Pregnancy for Dummies . RELATED: How You'll Know if You're in Labor Wondering when to expect your new arrival? Find out now. The Dating Game To calculate your due date , your doctor will take the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), and add 280 days (the equivalent of 40 weeks). For example, if your last period started on September 1, your due date would be June 7. This method assumes that your period arrives like clockwork every 28 days. If your cycles are longer, you're likely to deliver later than your due date; if they're shorter, expect to deliver earlier. A first-trimester sonogram is more trustworthy. Your doctor measures the length of the fetus and size of the gestational sac. If these numbers don't match up with what your LMP would predict, she may adjust your due date. But even if your doctor can pinpoint your due date with laserlike precision, don't expect your baby to show up right on schedule. Because, for all the windows into your womb, no one really understands what triggers labor. One possible (but, as my experience shows, imperfect) predictor: your past performance. "Patients tend to repeat what they did in a previous pregnancy," says Iffath Hoskins, M.D., executive director of the Women's Service at the Memorial Health University Medical Center, in Savannah, Georgia. If you're a first-time mom, look at your mother's childbirth history. "If your mother delivered one week past her due date, you are more apt to deliver one week past your due date as well," explains Fredric D. Frigoletto, Jr., M.D., chief of obstetrics at Massachusetts General Hospital, in Boston. Sooner Than Expected Most women—about 80 percent—deliver sometime between 37 and 42 weeks. So where does that leave the other 20 percent? About 11 percent deliver prematurely. Experts aren't sure why some women go into labor early. Possible risk factors include carrying multiples or having an abnormally shaped uterus. There may also be a connection between preterm labor and an infection such as bacterial vaginosis. Even your build can play a role—women who weigh less than 110 pounds are at slightly higher risk. Waiting It Out Once you've passed your due date, you may wonder whether your baby will arrive later than 42 weeks, or post-term. While Caucasian women tend to have slightly longer pregnancies, as do women under 30, no one knows why some babies take their own sweet time. However, your baby's gender could be a clue: One study found that boy fetuses are more likely to go beyond their due date than girls. Beginning at 40 or 41 weeks, expect to undergo weekly, then twice-weekly, nonstress tests. If your pregnancy progresses beyond this point, there's a risk that the quality of the placenta will deteriorate, the amniotic-fluid level will decline, or that your baby will pass a bowel movement, known as meconium. "Babies begin to practice breathing, and they can aspirate the meconium into their lungs—causing postdelivery problems," Dr. Frigoletto says. In addition, because your baby is still growing, you're at higher risk of needing a C-section . For these reasons, your doctor may want to induce labor once you hit 42 weeks. Whether you give birth exactly on your due date—or in the weeks before or after—doesn't really matter in the long run. After all, you'll just be happy to meet your newborn whenever she arrives. All content on this Web site, including medical opinion and any other health-related information, is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual situation. Use of this site and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship. Always seek the direct advice of your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others. Your Pregnancy: How To Calculate Your Due Date  More in Labor & Delivery      New Moms Describe What Labor Is Really Like       The Stages of Labor and Birth in a Vaginal Delivery       A Baby's View of Birth       Labor Support Tips for Dads       Premature Rupture of Membranes (PROM)       Writing a Birth Plan     Shop Links        Diaper Bags  Prenatal Vitamins  Baby Monitors  Breast Pumps  Plus-Size Maternity Clothes  Changing Pads  High Chairs  Nursery Furniture  Baby Clothes  Baby Toys  Maternity Clothing  Car Seats  Pacifiers  Pregnancy Pillows  Cameras  Strollers  Baby Strollers  Parenting Books  Shop More    Your Account Help Update Your Account Member Benefits Newsletter Customer Service Log in Join now! Log out   Parents.com About Us Baby Names Pregnancy Tracker Baby Development Recalls Video Sitemap   Parents Magazine Subscribe Digital Editions Gift Subscriptions Renew Subscriptions Customer Service Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Affiliate Program   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Follow Parents.com  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices      close                 Menu   Home  About Us  Contact Us  Media Kit         Add will appear here               Home Birth The Odds of Baby Arriving on Their Due Date?     The Odds of Baby Arriving on Their Due Date?           Without a doubt, you’ve heard lots of conflicting information on what a due date actually is.  Most believe the due date is a deadline. If Baby doesn’t arrive on that date, she’s late. If Baby comes before then, she’s automatically “premature.”        Some have theorized that due dates are an invention of modern medicine, and have become an excuse for doctors to perform c-sections. While that’s not what we believe, we do know that due dates are often inaccurate .  Baby should not be expected to arrive on an exact day (unless you’ve scheduled a c-section).  In fact, Baby should not be rushed at all unless there’s a medical reason to do so. According to the March of Dimes , a non-profit that “works to end premature birth, birth defects and infant mortality:”  “Labor should be induced only for medical reasons to protect the health of you and your baby. If your pregnancy is healthy, it’s best to let labor begin on its own without inducing labor.” // MarchofDimes.org  Due Date Statistics  Let’s take a look at the statistics taken from a casual, online survey with 11,704 participants. You can also take the       Due Date Statistics Let’s take a look at the statistics taken from a casual, online survey with 11,704 participants. You can also take the Note: The survey results were not verified. They rely on the honesty and accuracy of online participants. You can also take the survey here at SpaceFem.com.   What is the probability of spontaneous labor after 35 weeks?   Out of 11,1114 women, 8,464 went into labor spontaneously. This equals 76% of the total participants.   What is the probability of giving birth within X days of your due date?   Do babies come on their due dates? Not really, but they usually come sometime around it. Only 4.3% of babies arrived on their due date. Comparatively, 61.6% of non-induced babies arrive within one week of their due date.       What is the average length of pregnancy in weeks?    31.8% of babies were born at 40 weeks  25.7%  were born at 39 weeks  16.1% of babies were born at 41 weeks  13.5% were born at 38 weeks  6.4% were born at 37 weeks  2.8% were born at 36 weeks  2.1 % were born at 42 weeks  1.5% were born at 35 weeks  0.1% were born at 43 weeks.    What is the average length of pregnancy for subsequent births?   If your first baby comes early, will your second baby be early, too? If your second baby arrives late, does that mean your third will come late as well? According to the survey, on average, subsequent babies arrive 0.18 days later than the previous baby.  The average baby #2 came 0.44 days later than baby #1, based on 900 mothers.  The average baby #3 came 0.73 days earlier than baby #2, based on 187 mothers.  The average baby #3 came 0.58 days earlier than baby #1, based on 184 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.92 days earlier than baby #3, based on 50 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.19 days earlier than baby #2, based on 47 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.38 days earlier than baby #1, based on 48 mothers.    What is the length of pregnancy for first-time moms compared to second- and third-time moms?   On average, a first-time mom has her baby at 39 weeks 5 days. This is the equivalent of 54.8% of first-time moms giving birth on or before their due date compared to 56.7% of second-time moms, and 59.5% of third-time mothers.   Is there a connection between length of pregnancy and the type of delivery?    9% of the 8,670 women who went into labor spontaneously underwent a c-section.  19% of 2,343 women who were induced underwent a c-section.  Is there a correlation between induction and increased incidence of cesarean? You decide.   What is the relationship between the length of pregnancy and birth weight?   Are “late” babies huge? On average, “late” babies are generally bigger than “early” ones but not by much. The difference between a baby born at 39 weeks and one born at 41 weeks is about 300 grams.   What is the probability of induction after the due date?   Most doctors will induce a mom rather than let her get past her due date. According to the March of Dimes, however: “If your health care provider talks to you about inducing labor, ask if you can wait until at least 39 weeks to be induced. This gives your baby’s lungs and brain the time they need to fully grow and develop before he’s born.” // MarchofDimes.org   Is there a correlation between the age of the mother and the probability of spontaneous labor?   It has been theorized that the age of the mother has something to do with when labor sets in. Is it possible that the average due date would change depending on ethnicity, age or even country of origin? According to the survey, about the same number of women give birth on day 279 as 287.   Are more babies born on a full moon?   There is no correlation between the phase of the moon and when babies are born.   What is the most common day of the week for babies to be born?   According to the survey, the most common day for babies to be born is Thursday while the least common is Saturday.  Sunday 10.6% spontaneous deliveries and 1.6% induced births.  Monday 11% spontaneous deliveries and 3.2% induced births.  Tuesday 10.7% spontaneous deliveries 4.1% induced births.  Wednesday 10.9% spontaneous deliveries 3.9% induced births.  Thursday 13.1% spontaneous deliveries 4.5% induced births.  Friday 10.6% spontaneous deliveries 3.9% induced births.  Saturday 10% spontaneous deliveries 2.3 % induced births.    What does it mean if I’m 40 weeks pregnant?   Congratulations! You’ve hit your due date and Baby is fully developed! Instead of stressing out that Baby’s not here yet, relax and enjoy the anticipation. 52% of the women surveyed were still pregnant at 40 weeks. 28.79% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 3 days (on or before 40W,3D). It’s normal to still be pregnant at this point. If your doctor or midwife is supportive of natural induction, consider these natural induction methods .  34.49% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 4 days (on or before 40W, 4D)  46.57% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 6 days (on or before 40W, 6D)  57.07% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 8 days (on or before 41W, 1D)  68.61% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 12 days (on or before 41W, 5D)  73.44% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 21 days (on or before 43W, 0D)  26.56% of babies were induced.    I know the exact date I conceived. Can I calculate my exact due date?   Typically, due dates have an 8- to 10-day variation as they are calculated from the last menstrual period, not date of conception. The question then arises, is it possible to calculate an exact due date based on conception date? According to the survey, the standard deviation does not improve even if you know the exact second your baby was conceived. Babies are individuals, just like adults. Some need more time in the womb than others.   Which babies are born earlier, boys or girls?   The average arrival time for babies of both sexes  is 39 weeks and 5 days.   Do inductions bias due date  statistics?   What if all the women who were induced were meant to give birth late? Doesn’t this change the average amount of time a pregnancy should last? Not really, according to the survey. If we assume each induction was actually a late birth, the average median would shift by 2 days.     First Published at www.spacefem.com. Featured image source: www.sheknows.com         About  Latest Posts  Leah Owner, Founder at Karangis Collections Leah was born and raised in Kenya. She has a degree in psychology and divides her time between article writing, blogging and creating original African pieces. She provides her writing services independently and can be found odesk. When she isn’t hunched over a computer, she’s out being inspired by nature.  Latest posts by Leah ( see all )   Things to Do if You Don’t Celebrate Christmas - December 14, 2017    Looking for a Hospital to Give Birth At? - December 6, 2016    Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment of Placenta Previa - November 18, 2016  SHARING IS CARING! email Facebook Google+ Twitter Pinterest Reddit                   Tweet         Pin It   Related Posts       How to Write a Birth Plan You’ll Be Proud Of   Reese  January 19, 2016          Should Grandparents Babysit?   Leah  January 20, 2016          7 Things I Wish I Knew Before Breastfeeding   Lori  March 7, 2016          The Five Signs of Labor   Roger  December 27, 2015     Leave a Reply Facebook Comments Default Comments G+ Comments Disqus Comments  Specify a Disqus shortname at Social Comments options page in admin panel          Follow Us On         Birth      Epidurals: 6 Things You Need To Know       11 Easy Ways to Naturally Induce Labor       What to Bring to the Hospital for You and Baby       List of Foods You Can Eat during Labor       Why You Should Ignore Your Due Date     Product Reviews      Push Gift Ideas for New Moms       Yoga during Pregnancy       5 Best Body Pillows for Pregnancy!       A List of the Best Nursing Covers       Who Makes the Best Nursing Bras for Large Breasts?     Mother’s Day      What to Get a Pregnant Wife for Mother’s Day       How To Celebrate Mother’s Day while pregnant       8 Wonderful Mother’s Day Presents from Unborn Baby       Fun and Creative Mother’s Day Pregnancy Announcements       The Best Expecting Mom Mother’s Day Gifts     Categories   Advice & Tips   Baby Shower   Birth   Events & Announcements   Health & Nutrition   Holidays   Pregnancy Planning   Products                       Copyright © 2018. Babyprepping.com    Privacy Policy  DMCA Policy  Terms Of Use  Curation Policy  Sitemap         Babyprepping.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.                   Here's what you'll learn in our FREE guide            How to own your birthing experience The optimal pregnancy diet Which prenatal test are safe and necessary? Which childbirth classes do you really need?  How to bond with baby before birth             Send Me My Guide!            x         Sign up for our newsletter and receive a FREE guide! "The Most Important Pregnancy Decisions You'll Have to Make"              Get Guide!          x                                                                                                        Metro    Sports    Business & Tech    Opinion    Politics    Lifestyle    Arts    Cars    Real Estate      Most popular on BostonGlobe.com        Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate         Tom Ashbrook asks: Is there room for redemption?         The troubled truth behind Masters’ champ Patrick Reed         How much of ‘Chappaquiddick’ is actually true?                      Today's Paper    Magazine    Obituaries    Weather    Comics    Crossword    The Big Picture                        Menu                         Lifestyle     Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate      Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate                       Evan Horowitz  Get ready. Your baby is coming early.                 Share via e-mail     To   Add a message   Your e-mail                                              Print           Comments                                               By Evan Horowitz  Globe Staff  July 17, 2014        When you’re pregnant, a lot of conversations involve the same few questions. Are you having a boy or a girl? Have you picked a name? Did you hear about this great book (or great sleeping pillow or great technique to make your unborn baby smarter)? Above all, though, the question you get asked is: When are you due? The obvious answer is that you’re due on your “due date,” the magic day that your doctor calculated based on a standard 40-week pregnancy. But as it happens, the odds of delivering on your due date are extremely small. Only about 1 in 30 women give birth on their due date. You are more likely to give birth a week early than you are to give birth “on time.”  When do women really give birth?  The most likely birthdate is seven days early, according to a huge sample of birth information put together for the Globe by Brookings Institute researcher and WhenToExpect.com co-creator Matt Chingos.             Advertisement     These figures include not just “spontaneous” deliveries but also planned C-sections and planned inductions. It’s possible that these procedures, which are commonly performed in the week before the actual due date, account for some of the early births. Nevertheless, other researchers who have screened out planned births and looked just at spontaneous births have found a similar pattern , which suggests that babies still like to show up early, even when they’re uncoaxed.  Do first children arrive just as early?     Get The Weekender in your inbox:  The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond.        Sign Up      Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here    First children tend to stay put for a little longer. On average, they show up two or three days early. Second and third children arrive five to six days early.            Does it matter if it’s a boy or a girl?   Sex doesn’t seem to matter much. Boys and girls arrive at roughly the same time.            How about younger moms vs. older moms?  The older you are, the more likely you are to give birth early. Teenage moms tend to give birth about three days early, while moms in their 40s trek to the hospital about a week in advance. Part of this is due to birth order, as teenage moms are much more likely to be carrying their first children.            Can these numbers tell me when I’m going to give birth?  Unfortunately, no. At best, they might give you a better sense of the odds and help you win some bets with friends. Still, if there is one clear lesson in the data, it’s this: don’t wait until the last minute. Pack your hospital bag, settle on a name, stock up on sleep, and make sure your friends and family are primed to help. Chances are, your baby is coming sooner than you think.     More from Evan Horowitz:   Is it time for President Mike Bloomberg?  What if the polls are wrong?  How far can the stock market fall?  With opioids, can you fight addiction without causing pain?  Will the GE move really make a difference?     Evan Horowitz digs through data to find information that illuminates the policy issues facing Massachusetts and the United States. He can be reached at evan.horowitz@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @GlobeHorowitz       Loading comments...                                      Top 10 Trending Articles    Viewed  Commented  Shared       Most Popular in lifestyle            Real journalists. Real journalism.  Subscribe to The Boston Globe today.       Subscribe Now  Digital Access  Home Delivery  Gift Subscriptions  My Account  Manage my Account  Mobile Customer Service  Sign Up For Newsletters    Contact  Help  FAQs  Globe newsroom  Advertise  Order back issues    Social  Facebook  Twitter  Google+    More  ePaper  News in Education  Archives  Privacy policy  Terms of service  Terms of purchase  Work at Boston Globe Media   © 2018 Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC                                       datayze » Pregnancy Pregnancy Business & Motivation Writing Assistance Baby Name Website & Search Engine Optimization Financial Games Photography » Labor Probability Calculator Miscarriage Probability Chart Miscarriage Odds Reassurer Labor Probability Calculator Daily Labor Probability Chart Pregnancy - Week By Week Time to Conception Estimator Articles About Contact    Labor Probability Calculator  Estimates the probability of a woman going into labor on a given day based on where she is relative to her due date     Select Due Date:     Odds of spontaneous labor: Today: In the next three days: By the weekend: By this time next week:  Custom date ranges: Odds of spontaneous labor  By  :   On  :   After  :   Between  and :      Probability Density Function (PDF) of Spontaneous Labor with an expected due date of April 10th, 2018 given that today is April 10th .  Move your cursor over the graph to see the associated probabilities. Click on the graph to lock/unlock your cursor in place.   Daily Probability Chart          About the Labor Predictor  Will you go into labor today? Tomorrow? Next week? The labor predictor estimates the odds of spontaneous labor on a given day based on where you are relative to your due date using statistical modeling.  Take the Probabilities With You  Wondering what the probability is of going into labor before your due date, or before your induction date? Want to bookmark the Labor Probability Calculator with all it's data so you don't have to keep re-entering your date info it day after day? Click here to get a parameterized URL.  About the Model Prior research has shown that the distribution of spontaneous labor approximates a normal distribution with a standard deviation of 9 [1]
  or 13 days [2].  These studies provide the initial building blocks for our model, but fail to paint a complete picture.    
  Neither distribution does a good job of estimating the number of preterm deliveries.  The CDC has found that 9.6% of babies are born prematurely , 
  before 37 weeks.  The normal distribution based on [1] and [2], however, would predict less than 3% of babies
  are born prematurely (.03% and 2.7% respectively).
  In fact,
  [1] specifically excluded preterm deliveries from their analysis which
  is why their model predicts so few preterm babies, which explains why it's model predicts so few of them.  The normal distribution is favored in these types of applications for it's simplicity and tendency to fit the data.
  In this case, however, the normal distribution is likely an over simplification.
  A key drawback is that the normal distribution is a symmetric distribution.  
  That means two points equally far from the mean will have the same probability.  A symmetric distribution that predicts 10% of babies
  will be born before 37 weeks will also predict 10% of babies will be born after 43 weeks.  For all the births prior to 30 weeks,
  there would be a similar number of births after 50 weeks.
  Additionally, in a symmetric distribution 
  the median (point
  which half of all women would have gone into labor), is equal to the mode (most common day to go into labor.)  In prior studies,
  however, the mode date is typically after the median [2]. Although not scientific, conventional wisdom is that the most
  common day to go into labor is around 41 weeks. Taken together,
these data points suggests that a skewed normal distribution might be more appropriate.
The skewed normal distribution is a family of distributions that includes
the normal distribution, however the skewed normal distribution need not be symmetric.  Where the normal distribution is
defined by two parameters
(mean and standard deviation), the skewed normal distribution is defined by three (location, shape and scale).  Using mean squared error we identified a skewed normal
distribution that closely approximates the normal distribution identified with prior research (MSE of 0.002), accounted
for 10% of spontaneous labors occurring prematurely, and predicted roughly half of all women would go into labor before 
their due date and half after.   [1] H. Kieler; O. Axelsson; S. Nilsson; U. Waldenströ (1995). "The length of human pregnancy as calculated by 
    ultrasonographic measurement of the fetal biparietal diameter". Ultrasound in Obstetrics &
    Gynecology. 6 (5): 353–357. doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.1995.06050353.x  [2] Bergsjø P, Denman DW 3rd, Hoffman HJ, Meirik O. (1990). 
    "Duration of human singleton pregnancy. A population-based study.". Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand: 197–207.   Differences between Datayze's model and those found on other websites The key difference between our model and every other model out there (that we know of) is our model better
  incorporates
  the possibility of preterm spontaneous labor.  Like [1], most online models predict the probability of spontaneous labor
  before 37 weeks is approximately zero. As you can see
     
 from the Full Chart we estimate the probability of spontaneous labor before 37 weeks as 9.6%, matching the number from the CDC .
  If you're past 37 weeks, this distinction will be less important.  
  Before 37 weeks and our model will serve you much better.  Differences between Labor Probability Chart and the Labor Probability Calculator You may notice the probabilities differ between the Labor Probability Chart  and the Labor Probability Calculator .  That is because the two apps are modeling two similar sounding, yet different events.  
  This Labor Probability 
  Chart shows the probability of spontaneous 
  labor for a pregnant woman without considering how far along
  she is in her pregnancy.  
  The Labor Probability Calculator shows the probability of spontaneous based on how far along she is
  by renormalizing the distribution to include only the possible remaining days in a woman's pregnancy.
  After all, for a woman who hasn't gone into labor by today the probability of spontaneous labor starting yesterday is, by definition, 0%.
  Statistically speaking it's the difference between the probability of labor at 40 weeks 0 days in general, p _labor (40w0d) ,
  and the probability of labor at 40 weeks 0 days for a woman who is already 39 weeks along, p _labor (40w0d|39WeeksAlong) .  This website is intended for general information & entertainment purposes only.  
  This website is not intended to be considered medical advice.  
  I am happy to answer questions about the apps, and the mathematics behind them.
  I cannot answer medical questions.   Pregnant and thinking ahead? You might enjoy our other pregnancy apps , including a Week by Week Pregnancy Calendar . If it's really early in your pregnancy you may be interested in our Miscarriage Odds Reassurer , which is designed to help ease any miscarriage fears by emphasizing the odds of carrying to birth rather than the odds of miscarriage, or our Daily Miscarriage Probability Chart which shows how the probability changes over the course of the first twenty weeks.  Wanting to become pregnant? Our Time to Conception Estimator can estimate how long it may take.  Have baby names on the brain? Try our Baby Name Apps , including Baby Name Uniqueness Analyzer or Baby Name Explorer .  Still can't find a name you like? Try the Unique Baby Name Generator or the Name Blender which generates new names based on
  the latest trends.   About · Terms of Use · Privacy Policy · Contact                                                      Expecting Science   Search    Primary Menu  Skip to content  About  The Best of Expecting Science  Contact         Search for:                  Pregnancy   Your Due Date Is Wrong–So When Is Labor Most Likely?   September 29, 2014  Amy Kiefer  16 Comments     Can we please stop with this due date nonsense already?  Yes, the due date is not a precise date , only an estimate. And yes,  most women will deliver within 2 weeks of their so called “due date”.  But the due date has bigger problems.   Actual birth data, from real pregnant women, shows that the due date is not only an imprecise delivery estimate–as any single day would be–it is 1-4 days too early . Statistically-speaking, it is biased. And bias is bad .  If you knew nothing about due dates, you might reasonably suppose that the due date is the average date of delivery.  And you’d be wrong. The due date is NOT the average delivery day of a large, modern reference sample of pregnant women. The due date is also NOT the day on which pregnant women most commonly deliver (the mode). It is NOT the day by which half of pregnant women have typically delivered, and half have not (the median). No, the average, the mode, and the median delivery days are all 1-4  days after the “due date “.  So why care about the due date at all? Well, modern medicine has given us one very concrete reason for concern: Due dates act as a medical deadline. Go a week past yours, and you will be urged to have labor induced. Go two weeks past and an induction is all but assured. If you have severe gestational diabetes, and your due date will likely be treated as a hard stop, and your doctor will insist on an induction at the 40 week mark.  So what IS a due date?  The “due date” comes from a calculation known as Naegele’s rule , in which 280 days are added to the first day of a woman’s last menstrual period.  Naegele’s rule has proved remarkably enduring. Naegele, a director at a German hospital, developed his rule in the early 1800s, long before ovulation predictor kits, over-the-counter pregnancy tests, prenatal ultrasounds, fetal nonstress tests, pitocin–in short, before all of modern obstetrics. His calculation of pregnancy length relied not only on the duration of actual, observable pregnancies, but was also greatly influenced by biblical scholarship indicating that the gestation of Christ lasted for ten lunar months .  Not surprisingly, Naegele’s rule has some problems. The first, imprecision , is pretty obvious to people with ovaries: His rule assumes menstrual cycles are consistent in length, exactly 28 days long, with ovulation occurring precisely on day 14. Ovulation is less predictable than that. And many, many women’s cycles are shorter or longer than 28 days. Have a longer cycle, and the due date will likely underestimate the real delivery date. Have a shorter cycle, and the due date may overestimate it.  The second problem, bias , is far more concerning:  The average actual delivery date is later than the one predicted by Naegele’s rule. This is especially true for first-time mothers. In a study of 114 Caucasian women , women with 1 or more deliveries under their belts delivered an average of 3 days after their due dates; first time mothers delivered an average of 8 days after their due dates. Another study of 1,514 women with reliable conceptions dates found that first-time mothers went an average of 4 days “late;” women with a previous birth went 2 days “late.”  Other large studies back up these findings: Naegele’s rule consistently underestimates the average delivery date by 2-4 days (see here ).  Note, though, that estimates apply best to Caucasian women. For unknown reasons, women of Asian or African ancestry tend to give birth about a full week earlier than do Caucasians .  Is there a more accurate way to calculate a “due date”?  Yes. One way is to shift Naegele’s rule. Adding 282 days to the first day of the last menstrual period, instead of 280, provides a more accurate estimate. But, if available, an estimate based on a first trimester ultrasound is the best option . Using ultrasound-based due dates, 92% of pregnancies delivered within the normal range of 37-42 weeks; using due dates, this percentage fell to 87%.  One day off. Two days off. Who really cares? Actually, this bias matters a lot. An estimate off by even a couple of days significantly raises the percentage of women regarded as post-term (past 42 weeks) , who are then urged to have inductions.  Consider the results of a UK study of over 24,000 women . The researchers studied inductions for post-term (past 42 week) pregnancies. When evaluated by ultrasound dates alone, they found the majority, 71.5% percent, of these pregnancies were not actually post-term.  So when are pregnant women actually most likely to deliver?  In her book Expecting Better , Emily Oster used the 2006 annual U.S. data for singleton births, from the Centers for Disease Control, to try to answer this question. She noted that in 2006 the most common week to deliver in was the 39th; about 30% of births occurred then. The data from 2012 look similar to those from 2006, but hint: there’s a problem with her approach.  What’s the problem? These data are fine for figuring out when a pregnant woman is most likely to deliver, assuming she is agnostic about how she delivers. But they are not particularly useful for figuring out when spontaneous labor is most likely. This is because the CDC birth data includes all deliveries. The CDC combines spontaneous births with scheduled inductions and c-sections, and these are typically scheduled for the 39th week of pregnancy.  Are there really enough scheduled inductions and c-sections to affect the distribution of births for the whole U.S.? Absolutely. Since 1990, the rate of medical inductions has more than doubled . In 2012, more than 1 in 5 pregnant women were induced, compared to just under 1 in 10 in 1990 . In 2012, 32.9% of women had c-sections, a 60% increase from 1996, and about half of these c-sections were scheduled.  To see how big the effect is, compare the CDC’s singleton birth data for 2012 with the same data from 1990:   Scheduled inductions and c-sections shift the bulk of the distribution to the left. In 1990, slightly more women delivered in their 40th week of pregnancy than in their 39th week, and about 10% made it to their 42nd week. In 2012, most women delivered in their 39th week, and only 5% delivered in their 42nd week.  This comparison is not perfect. In 1990, scheduled inductions and c-sections were commonplace, albeit less frequent than in 2012. Still, the 1990 data are closer to what would occur without medical intervention and are consistent with other historical data. A large Swedish study of births found that 10% of women go past 42 weeks . The distribution of births in Canada in 1972 and 1986 shows a similar pattern:   Now that I am full term, how likely is it that I will deliver in the next week?  As a full-term pregnant woman, the above graph did not address my central question: when was someone like me most likely go into labor? Predicting this using the average delivery day, while a superior approach to using the due date, is still suboptimal. This is because the distribution of births is skewed . In 2012, preterm births accounted for just under 12% of all U.S. births. These preterm births create a long tail that pulls the average delivery date to the left.  Moreover, by 37 weeks, I knew I was not going to deliver in my 35th week. It would be nice to update my delivery estimate with that knowledge. Boiled down to a simple question, what I wanted to know was: How likely am I to go into labor within the next week, considering that I have not yet given birth? Statisticians would call this the conditional probability of giving birth in a given week.  For the sake of comparison, the table below shows the conditional probabilities for 1990 and 2012.   *Note: the CDC data combine week 37-38 deliveries. The probabilities shown for week 37 are therefore for delivery over the next two weeks .  Until past the 40-week mark, the odds of labor in the next week are less than 50%.  Because it is standard medical practice to induce labor at 42 completed weeks, the chance of delivery by 42 weeks appears to be 100%. Of course, many of these births are not spontaneous, but induced. From historical data, it appears that without medical intervention 5-10% of women would deliver after 42 weeks.  Like this post? Don’t forget, sharing is sweet!    Advertisements            Like this post? Pass it on. Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Like this: Like  Loading...   Related    delivery Due Date post-dates Pregnancy preterm labor   Post navigation   Previous Post Trying to Bring On Labor? Forget Sex and Spicy Foods. Only Nipple Stimulation Works. Next Post Inducing Labor Past 39 Weeks Does Not Increase Your Chances of Having a C-Section     16 thoughts on “Your Due Date Is Wrong–So When Is Labor Most Likely?”        Rhea Marie  says:     October 1, 2014 at 10:47 pm      I love this topic.  Fortunately my OB was really relaxed about the due date, but I always feel bad for women who start to feel a lot of pressure to be induced when there isn’t an obvious reason to (like an ultrasound indicating there is potential for fetal distress/macrosomia/problems with amniotic fluid).  I had two due dates, May 4th, 2013 based on an ultrasound at 6 weeks and May 8th based on LMP.  I had the sweep on May 9th (after having an ultrasound where everything looked healthy– but the baby was definitely estimated to be over 9 lbs) and went into labor right away, and delivered May 11th (just past midnight); so about a week past my U/S due date and a few days past my LMP one.  Oh, and this reminded me of this site: http://spacefem.com/pregnant/charts/duedate0.php  Like Like   Reply         amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 6:23 pm      Nice that your doctor was relaxed and respectful of your wishes!  Did you baby end up over 9 lbs at birth? It sounds like weight estimation using ultrasounds can be pretty inaccurate.  Like Like   Reply         Rhea Marie  says:     October 23, 2014 at 12:02 am      They estimated 9 lbs 3 oz and he was 9 lbs 7 oz two days later when he was born. I think the accuracy probably depends a lot on the experience of the technician and quality of the machine.  Like Like              kra  says:     October 5, 2014 at 2:23 am      My due dates were calculated by last menstrual period; my firstborn was 10 days ‘early’ and my seconnd was nearly two weekes ‘late’.  Like Like   Reply         amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 6:22 pm      Were you bummed when the second one went two weeks late after the first coming early?  Like Liked by 1 person   Reply           amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 5:53 pm      The key here is that the above statement is true if labor is imminent. If it is say, a week away, then having an induction lowers the risk of a c-section.  After reading through all the research on this, the one take home message seems to be that after 41 weeks, having an induction is not going to raise your chances of a c-section; it will almost certainly lower it.  Like Like   Reply         Squique  says:     July 27, 2016 at 9:23 pm      Could you do (or have you already done) a review of the data on inducing labor in “elderly women” to prevent stillbirths? I am 41 years old and pregnant with my 4th child. I know the apparent standard practice is to induce at 39 weeks based on data from small study where is it suggested that stillbirth risk is that of younger women at that time. I’m vehemently opposed to the idea. I have had one experience with oxytocin after 2 completely unmedicated births and it was human torture. I am a physician in a non-OB field. In my perfunctory review of some data, I think there is excessive medicalization and intervention in birthing. Thank you.  Like Like   Reply         Amy Kiefer  says:     August 3, 2016 at 8:07 pm      Great idea–I am going to add it to my queue. I did not know that this was standard practice. Would you send me any info you have about this being standard and the alleged rationale?  Like Like   Reply           Lola  says:     October 26, 2016 at 7:38 pm      Another question I’d love to know… How do these stats change based on your previous children. For example: my son (healthy, normal pregnancy) came three weeks before his “due date.” So early no matter how you look at it really. What are my chances of having another early baby – are they increased at all? (Assuming another healthy pregancy, of course).  Like Like   Reply     Pingback: What I’ve Been Doing the Last Few Weeks | Expecting Science     Pingback: Parce qu’on ne prend pas rendez-vous avec bébé         Saskia W  says:     July 10, 2017 at 6:14 pm      Hi, just want to add to this terrific post that in both France and Germany (where I’ve had prenatal appointments) the due date is calculated to be a week and two weeks later, respectively, than in the US (where I’m based).  I wonder whether in Asian / African countries the standard calculation is also different, to reflect the earlier delivery cited in the study you linked to above?  (Also, since that study was based in London, sampling women of African or Asian *descent*, I wonder whether there’s a difference between African / Asian women actually in African / Asian countries and those in Caucasian-majority countries?)  Thanks again for your intriguing discoveries and discussions!  Like Like   Reply         RH  says:     September 8, 2017 at 2:30 pm      I’m the exception to the rule not to count on the due date being the delivery date.  My two vaginal births occurred on their due dates.  with #1, my water broke the day before my due date and I was induced the next morning and delivered in the evening.  With #3, I went into natural labor at home in the morning at about 9 am, arrived at the hospital at 6cm at about 1 p.m and delivered at the hospital at 2:46 (weirdly enough on the operating table as they were preparing to put me out for an emergency c-section due to fetal distress when I said “the baby is coming” and then checked and then told me to push, it turned out he had a true knot in his umbilical cord and the cord was wrapped twice around his neck).  I know with my first pregnancy that I had a standard 25 day cycle and ovulated on day ten, with a positive pregnancy test 10 days later, so if the doctor had gone by those dates, my son would have been late under Naegele’s rule.  With #3 I ovulated around day 13, so had a more typical cycle length.  Like Like   Reply         Susan  says:     September 28, 2017 at 12:14 am      I had my first baby ten days late, and he weighed 6 -10. My second was 26 days late (!) and weighed 7 – 4. The third was a csection around her due date, and she weighed 6 – 3 and they said she looked three or four weeks early. Go figure. My first grandchild is due tomorrow (son of the son who was 26 days late), but who knows!  Like Like   Reply     Pingback: Pregnancy – Love. Laughter. Life. Medicine.         Vanessa  says:     February 9, 2018 at 10:26 pm      What a great article. I needed this ammunition in order to sound informed as my doctor wants to induce me at 41 weeks. I’m considering it since there are risks such as meconium etc. However I’d rather base it on evidence and if my fluid levels and stress tests are normal I see no reason to wait until 42 weeks. My mom had both my sister and I “late” so there is that genetic factor.  My blood pressure has been rising a bit albeit still normal, so I just have to control that by exercising daily and a good diet.  Like Liked by 1 person   Reply      Leave a Reply Cancel reply      Enter your comment here...      Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                  Email (Address never made public)     Name     Website                 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )   w     Cancel  Connecting to %s       Notify me of new comments via email.  Notify me of new posts via email.                 Advertisements           Expecting Science in Your Inbox   Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.  Join 1,208 other followers             Expecting Science is on Facebook    Expecting Science is on Facebook     Lies, Damned Lies, and Miscarriage Statistics    Your Due Date Is Wrong--So When Is Labor Most Likely?    Light Drinking During Pregnancy: 7 Things You Need to Know      Advertisements             Evidence-based info for the thinking parent   Welcome  Expecting Science is here to empower new and expecting parents with real, evidence-based information.   Hear About New Posts by Email   Join 1,208 other followers             Expecting Science is on Facebook    Expecting Science is on Facebook   Top Posts   Why is the American Academy of Pediatrics exaggerating the benefits of breastfeeding?    Critics of Cry-It-Out Fundamentally Misunderstand How Stress Affects the Brain    Don't Count on Breastfeeding to Help You Shed Your Baby Weight    The Middlemiss Study Tells Us Nothing About Sleep Training, Cry-It-Out, or Infant Stress   Topics  30s  Age  alcohol  Allergies  amniocentesis  asthma  Baby  benefits  Birth  bmi  Breastfeeding  breastmilk  breast milk  C-section  cesarean  chance of pregnancy  chances of conception  chances of miscarriage  chorionic villus sampling  cognitive ability  cry-it-out  diabetes  drinking  Due Date  duration  egg freezing  exclusive breastfeeding  fertility  First Trimester  food allergies  formula  Gender  genetic disorders  giving birth  guidelines  health  induction  infants  infant sleep  Infections  IQ  microbiome  Miscarriage  miscarriage risk  non-invasive prenatal testing  nursing  obesity  ovulation  Parity  peanut allergy  Pitocin  Pregnancy  pregnancy loss  pregnant  prenatal screening  prenatal testing  risk  sex determination  SIDS  Sleep  sleep training  solid foods  Solids  stages  stillbirth  stress  supine  supplements  trying to conceive  ultrasound  vena cava  vitamin D  weight gain  weight loss         Powered by WordPress.com .                                  Post to     Cancel                   Send to Email Address   Your Name   Your Email Address         Cancel  Post was not sent - check your email addresses!  Email check failed, please try again  Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.                  %d bloggers like this:                     Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea  Try floating instead. By Jeanne Faulkner, R.N.  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email     I have two friends who are due at the end of August. Both are first timers, healthy and had fairly easy pregnancies. There's been a little nausea here and there and a few aches and pains, but other than that they've both been really fortunate to have lovely pregnancies. They're both eager to meet their daughters, but one is counting down the days to her due date like she's going on a cruise. "Twenty seven more days" she posts on her Facebook page. The date is so embedded in her mind that frankly I'm a little worried. What's going to happen when she gets close to her due date and there's no sign of labor? What if she cruises right on past it? Will she be disappointed and impatient? Will she start doubting her body? She can't cancel the trip, but she might be tempted to change her travel plans. My other friend is taking a more laid back approach. She knows she's going on a cruise pretty soon. She's packed and ready to go, but she's not sure of the actual launch date. If labor doesn't start by her due date, that's cool. A little sooner, a little later doesn't much matter. It's still going to be one heck of a big trip. I've written before that due dates are only an estimate of when your baby's going to arrive. It's not an etched in stone appointment. First time moms, if left alone to go into labor naturally tend to be pregnant for about 41 weeks and 1 day. Women who've had babies before tend to deliver around 40 weeks and 3 days. Only about 10% of women go longer than 42 weeks. That's average. Some deliver earlier and some go a little longer and it's almost always completely normal. A little frustrating, maybe, but still normal. Your due date is set at 40 weeks and many care providers emphasize that anything after 38 weeks is considered full term. Frankly I don't think that's cool. It just sets women up for disappointment. Two weeks before her due date she starts thinking "any day now." When her due date crawls past and nothing happens, it's disheartening. If she still has a week or so to go, it feels like torture. It also sets her up think she (or her doctor/midwife) needs to intervene to get things going. This is where a lot of inductions come from ; from the impression that since labor hasn't already started naturally, then it's probably never going to start unless somebody starts it with medicine. That's not terribly logical. Most of the time when women go past their due date, nothing's wrong with them or their babies. They're just not done yet. Let it be. Your body knows what to do so much better than you give it credit for. Unless there's some indication that there's a problem, just chill. It's going to happen. No one has ever been pregnant forever. I prefer the idea of a floating due date. I think it would be kinder and more accurate to tell women, "your baby will be here sometime near the end of August or beginning of September." Then, women won't think there's anything wrong with them. I've heard so many women say, "My body just wouldn't go into labor so my doctor had to induce me." Well, of course, your body will go into labor. That's what it was designed to do. Maybe it won't go into labor on one specific date, but geez, have a little patience and flexibility, will ya? I think women need a reward strategy for enduring the last days and weeks of pregnancy. It doesn't have to be anything big or expensive, but every day you go past your due date, give yourself a treat. Go to a movie, buy some new socks, make a pan of brownies, get someone to paint your toenails or give you a massage, watch a Sex and the City marathon. It doesn't really matter what the reward is, as long as it gives you something enjoyable to look forward to help take the sting out of waiting for labor. Due dates set the stage for the unpredictable nature of parenting. Labor is only the beginning. There are so many things you don't really have any control over. When those things come up, sometimes the best way of dealing with them is to just let it be. You don't always have to do anything when things aren't going exactly as expected. It's not going to be the cruise you planned on anyway. It's going to be a different trip altogether. Just sit back and wait for things to happen in their own good time. It's not about the schedule. It's not about the destination. It's about the journey. Jeanne Faulkner, R.N ., lives in Portland, Oregon with her husband and five children. More about Jeanne This Fit Pregnancy blog is intended for educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace medical advice from your physician. Before initiating any exercise program, diet or treatment provided by Fit Pregnancy, you should seek medical advice from your primary caregiver.            Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                        Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery When Your Due Date Passes: What Comes Next? When Your Due Date Passes: What Comes Next?  Your due date has come and gone. Here's how passing the 40-week mark can affect your pregnancy and delivery. By Nancy Gottesman  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email       Ask any mom whose pregnancy went into extra innings: Right around your due date, the phone calls, emails and texts start coming: "Is anything happening?" "What does the doctor say?" "Wellll????" Playing the waiting game during the last few weeks of pregnancy is hard, but it becomes especially difficult when 40 weeks turn into 41 . . . or 42. But the first thing to know is this: Your due date is just an estimate. In fact, only 5 percent of babies are born on theirs.   "No woman should feel nervous or anxious if she's still pregnant after her due date," says Alex C. Vidaeff, M.D., M.P.H., a maternal-fetal medicine researcher and practitioner at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston. "Due dates can be off by a week in either direction." Sometimes, even two weeks! Despite that fact, many women get hung up on those dates and feel distress when they come and go, Vidaeff adds.   In the first trimester, your due date is calculated by adding 40 weeks (280 days) to the first day of your last menstrual period, then synched with ultrasound images that date the age of the embryo or fetus. But the result is just an educated "guesstimate." "You might really be 39 weeks when you think you're at 40," says Vidaeff, adding that pregnancy length is, in many cases, genetically determined.   Going into overtime The strict medical definition of "post-term" (aka "post-date") is a pregnancy that goes beyond 42 weeks. However, recent research has shown that delivery after 40 weeks may come with certain risks, and OB-GYNs have responded in kind. "We now change our clinical practices at 40 weeks to prevent potential complications in both mom and baby," says Carri R. Warshak, M.D., an assistant professor in the department of maternal-fetal medicine at the University of Cincinnati.   At the 40-week mark, your doctor or midwife will become more vigilant about monitoring the baby. Post-term infants are at higher risk for problems with glucose metabolism, which can lead to excessive birth weight, and for inhaling meconium (fecal waste); this can cause breathing problems or infection at birth. Amniotic fluid levels can drop, and after 42 weeks, the placenta may not work as well as it did earlier.   Your caregiver will regularly check your amniotic fluid level, the baby's heart rate and his estimated weight, which increases significantly from 40 to 42 weeks. "If the fetus weighs more than 8 pounds, 13 ounces, you may have difficulty pushing during labor, and using a forceps or vacuum may be necessary for delivery," says Warshak.   When baby needs a nudge After 39 or 40 weeks, it's sometimes best to deliver sooner rather than later: Studies have shown that newborn admissions to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) increase slightly when a pregnancy lasts 40 to 42 weeks. And stillbirth, though still rare, becomes a concern: At 40 weeks, the risk is 2 to 3 per 1,000 babies; at 42 weeks, it's 4 to 7 per 1,000. If labor hasn't started spontaneously, you'll probably be induced at 41 weeks—at the latest. "If your cervix has started to dilate, odds are in your favor for a successful induction," Warshak says. Translation: You won't end up having a Cesarean section.     Whether or not you'll be induced depends on your own health, the status of your cervix and the baby's well-being as determined by a non-invasive procedure called fetal non-stress testing. The conditions inside your uterus after your due date may also stress the baby during labor and vaginal delivery. As a result, Warshak says, "Even if your cervix is at 8 centimeters and labor is progressing, we'll do a C-section if the baby is not tolerating labor well."   The midwife philosophy Midwives tend to wait a little longer than OB-GYNs do. "In our practice, we wait until 42 weeks for women to go into labor naturally," says Joanne Hasman, C.N.M., a certified nurse-midwife at Special Beginnings Birth and Women's Center in Arnold, Md. "If they don't by then, we schedule an induction at our hospital. We also try natural methods and refer women for acupuncture, reflexology or reiki."   At 40 to 41 weeks, if your cervix is dilated at least 2 centimeters, the midwives in Hasman's practice perform what's called a "cervical sweep," using a finger to separate the cervix from the amniotic sac. This can sometimes kick-start labor. "If the woman is really ready [to go into labor], I'll see her back here in 24 to 36 hours," Hasman says.   The C-section question  An ongoing concern has been whether induction, as opposed to what's known as expectant management (waiting for labor to start spontaneously while monitoring the mother's and baby's well-being), might lead to a higher risk for emergency Cesarean section, and studies have been conflicting. But a new Danish study of more than 230,000 women found that inducing labor from week 39 to week 41 is not connected with higher C-section rates compared with waiting for labor to begin spontaneously or inducing labor later.   Playing the waiting game  Backaches, heartburn, hemorrhoids—at 40 weeks all you want to do is hold your baby in your arms. Here are a few tips to help you cope:   â–  MAKE GOOD USE OF YOUR EXTRA TIME Sleep. Finish the nursery. Stock your larder with ready-made meals. Address birth announcements and thank-you notes.   â–  CREATE A BLOG OR VOICEMAIL MESSAGE Keep family and friends up-to-date with a daily blog entry, such as: "Just visited the doc, who said everything's fine." Record a new voicemail with an upbeat message: "No, baby's not here yet. Thankfully, we're all healthy. Keep checking this message for daily updates!"   â–  SHUN DIY LABOR STARTERS "There are no home remedies that reliably and safely initiate labor," says maternal-fetal medicine specialist Carri R. Warshak, M.D. "If there were, we'd use them in the hospital." Castor oil can make you sick and dehydrated. Spicy foods can give you heartburn. And, she says, no good studies back the claims that sex or exercise can trigger labor.             Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                                                   Accessibility links   Skip to content  Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                       News   BBC News Navigation     Sections           Home      Video      World      US & Canada      UK      Business      Tech      Science      Stories      Entertainment & Arts      Health      In Pictures      Reality Check      World News TV      Newsbeat      Special Reports      Explainers      The Reporters      Have Your Say                Magazine               Magazine              How accurate are 'due dates'?   By Keith Moore  BBC News        3 February 2015              Share this with Facebook           Share this with Twitter           Share this with Messenger           Share this with Messenger           Share this with Email      Share    Share this with  These are external links and will open in a new window      Email  Share this with Email       Facebook  Share this with Facebook       Messenger  Share this with Messenger       Messenger  Share this with Messenger       Twitter  Share this with Twitter       Pinterest  Share this with Pinterest       WhatsApp  Share this with WhatsApp       LinkedIn  Share this with LinkedIn     Copy this link   http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-31046144   Read more about sharing.  These are external links and will open in a new window   Close share panel                 Image copyright  BBC/ Penelope Chaney/ Eleanor Marshall   When Penelope Chaney met up with her friend, Eleanor Marshall, she had good news to share - she was pregnant. But Eleanor also had good news... she was pregnant too. And amazingly, both had been given the same predicted delivery date - 4 April. So what are the chances of both giving birth on the same day? In the UK, where Chaney and Marshall live, a woman's estimated date of delivery is first calculated by using the date of her last period and adding 280 days, or 40 weeks. That is followed by an ultrasound scan where another estimate is made, based on the size of the foetus. If the two "due dates" differ by a week or more, the scan is taken as the more accurate measure. It's the same in most developed countries.     But data from the Perinatal Institute, a non-profit organisation, shows that an estimated date of delivery is rarely accurate - in fact, a baby is born on its predicted due date just 4% of the time. The figure is higher when premature births and pregnancies with complications are not included, but only marginally (4.4%). While it may be helpful for parents to get an idea of when their child will arrive, the main purpose of the due date is to "define a metric for the care" of the mother during pregnancy, says Prof Jason Gardosi of the Perinatal Institute. "So, for example, to interpret early pregnancy blood tests for the risk for example of congenital anomalies, it's important to know how far gone the pregnancy is."    Image copyright  Thinkstock   The advice to the expectant mother, he says, is that the baby is likely to come any time between 37 weeks (259 days) and 42 weeks (294 days), a period referred to as "term", when the baby has reached full maturity, Gardosi says. For women like Penelope and Eleanor, whose pregnancies are straightforward and low risk, 60% of babies are born within a week either side of the estimated date of delivery. More than 90% are born two weeks either side of the predicted date. But, as noted above, only 4% (or 4.4%, ignoring pregnancies with complications etc) are born on the predicted date itself - in other words, the chance of this happening is less than one in 20.  More or Less: Behind the stats  Listen to More or Less on BBC Radio 4 and the World Service, or download the free podcast  Download the More or Less podcast  More stories from More or Less  What, then, are the chances of Penelope's and Eleanor's babies both being born on 4 April? Only 4.4% of 4.4%, or 0.2%. That's a probability of one in 500. The chance that their children will be born on the same day - any day, not necessarily 4 April - is higher. It's about one in 30. Gardosi says the statistics reveal an important message for pregnant women. The phrase "due date" is misleading. That makes it sound too accurate, he says - it should really be called an "estimated date". "Many mothers are unnecessarily anxious or impatient if there's too much reliance on the expected date of delivery," Gardosi says. "We really need to explain to them that this is just a date which helps us to determine the other milestones in pregnancy."        Image copyright  ALAMY   Estimating delivery  German obstetrician Franz Karl Naegele (1778-1851) suggested taking the first day of the expectant mother's last period, adding one year, subtracting three months, and adding seven days  This can vary by up to three days from the usual system used today - adding 280 days (or 40 weeks) to the first day of the last period  In France it is standard to add two weeks and nine months to the first day of the last period - or a total of 41 weeks - explains Carrieanne Le Bras at the French Mamma website - though this date may be revised in the light of ultrasound tests  But according to Roshni Patel, an obstetrician at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, French doctors "just manage expectations better" - while doctors in the UK or US wait up to two weeks after an estimated delivery date before inducing birth, French doctors give women an extra week to start with, then induce more quickly  Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox .    Related Topics Babies & toddlers Pregnancy Women's health    Share this story About sharing      Email      Facebook      Messenger      Messenger      Twitter      Pinterest      WhatsApp      LinkedIn         More on this story          Why Finnish babies sleep in cardboard boxes    4 June 2013              In today's Magazine                              Top Stories   Facebook chief testifies to Congress  Chief executive Mark Zuckerberg faces a grilling from senators on political ads and data privacy.  10 April 2018    Zuckerberg: 'I'm responsible and I'm sorry'  10 April 2018    Why the raid on Trump's lawyer is a big deal  10 April 2018          Features           Video      What are Trump's military and diplomatic options in Syria?              Video      Girls jump from balcony to escape blaze              'More than 600 apps had access to my iPhone data'                   Zuckerberg testifies: Seven things to look out for              Syria 'chemical attack': What we know              Why the raid on Trump's lawyer is a big deal              How photos are helping abuse victims love themselves              In the US, you don't have to kill to be a murderer              The 150-year-old story of Sri Lankan tea-making                                          Why you can trust BBC News       BBC News Navigation   Sections     Home      Video      World      World Home   Africa    Asia    Australia    Europe    Latin America    Middle East         US & Canada      US & Canada Home        UK      UK Home   England    N. Ireland    Scotland    Wales    Politics         Business      Business Home   Market Data    Global Trade    Companies    Entrepreneurship    Technology of Business    Business of Sport    Global Education    Economy         Tech      Science      Stories      Entertainment & Arts      Health      In Pictures      Reality Check      World News TV      Newsbeat      Special Reports      Explainers      The Reporters      Have Your Say          BBC News Services    On your mobile    On your connected tv    Get news alerts    Contact BBC News              Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                                                                         Metro    Sports    Business & Tech    Opinion    Politics    Lifestyle    Arts    Cars    Real Estate      Most popular on BostonGlobe.com        Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate         Tom Ashbrook asks: Is there room for redemption?         The troubled truth behind Masters’ champ Patrick Reed         How much of ‘Chappaquiddick’ is actually true?                      Today's Paper    Magazine    Obituaries    Weather    Comics    Crossword    The Big Picture                        Menu                         Lifestyle     Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate      Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate                       Evan Horowitz  Get ready. Your baby is coming early.                 Share via e-mail     To   Add a message   Your e-mail                                              Print           Comments                                               By Evan Horowitz  Globe Staff  July 17, 2014        When you’re pregnant, a lot of conversations involve the same few questions. Are you having a boy or a girl? Have you picked a name? Did you hear about this great book (or great sleeping pillow or great technique to make your unborn baby smarter)? Above all, though, the question you get asked is: When are you due? The obvious answer is that you’re due on your “due date,” the magic day that your doctor calculated based on a standard 40-week pregnancy. But as it happens, the odds of delivering on your due date are extremely small. Only about 1 in 30 women give birth on their due date. You are more likely to give birth a week early than you are to give birth “on time.”  When do women really give birth?  The most likely birthdate is seven days early, according to a huge sample of birth information put together for the Globe by Brookings Institute researcher and WhenToExpect.com co-creator Matt Chingos.             Advertisement     These figures include not just “spontaneous” deliveries but also planned C-sections and planned inductions. It’s possible that these procedures, which are commonly performed in the week before the actual due date, account for some of the early births. Nevertheless, other researchers who have screened out planned births and looked just at spontaneous births have found a similar pattern , which suggests that babies still like to show up early, even when they’re uncoaxed.  Do first children arrive just as early?     Get The Weekender in your inbox:  The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond.        Sign Up      Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here    First children tend to stay put for a little longer. On average, they show up two or three days early. Second and third children arrive five to six days early.            Does it matter if it’s a boy or a girl?   Sex doesn’t seem to matter much. Boys and girls arrive at roughly the same time.            How about younger moms vs. older moms?  The older you are, the more likely you are to give birth early. Teenage moms tend to give birth about three days early, while moms in their 40s trek to the hospital about a week in advance. Part of this is due to birth order, as teenage moms are much more likely to be carrying their first children.            Can these numbers tell me when I’m going to give birth?  Unfortunately, no. At best, they might give you a better sense of the odds and help you win some bets with friends. Still, if there is one clear lesson in the data, it’s this: don’t wait until the last minute. Pack your hospital bag, settle on a name, stock up on sleep, and make sure your friends and family are primed to help. Chances are, your baby is coming sooner than you think.     More from Evan Horowitz:   Is it time for President Mike Bloomberg?  What if the polls are wrong?  How far can the stock market fall?  With opioids, can you fight addiction without causing pain?  Will the GE move really make a difference?     Evan Horowitz digs through data to find information that illuminates the policy issues facing Massachusetts and the United States. He can be reached at evan.horowitz@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @GlobeHorowitz       Loading comments...                                      Top 10 Trending Articles    Viewed  Commented  Shared       Most Popular in lifestyle            Real journalists. Real journalism.  Subscribe to The Boston Globe today.       Subscribe Now  Digital Access  Home Delivery  Gift Subscriptions  My Account  Manage my Account  Mobile Customer Service  Sign Up For Newsletters    Contact  Help  FAQs  Globe newsroom  Advertise  Order back issues    Social  Facebook  Twitter  Google+    More  ePaper  News in Education  Archives  Privacy policy  Terms of service  Terms of purchase  Work at Boston Globe Media   © 2018 Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC                                                                 News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                                               News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                  News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                             Live Science Health  Royal Baby: Are Firstborns More Likely to Be Late?  By Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer | July 15, 2013 04:42pm ET                            MORE           A newborn baby  Credit: Newborn baby via Shutterstock     The world is eagerly awaiting the birth of the royal baby, but considering this is Kate Middleton's first pregnancy, is the baby likely to be late?  Buckingham Palace has not provided an official due date for the baby but has said the newborn is expected in mid-July.  Babies don't always arrive when they're supposed to, and mothers often say firstborns tend to be late, although this conclusion is typically based on anecdotal reports. [See 11 Big Fat Pregnancy Myths ].  Recently, Allen Downey, a professor of computer science at Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in Needham, Mass., did an analysis to find out if there was any truth to this old wives' tale. Downey studied a 2002 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention survey of 7,643 women, who reported 9,148 live births.  He found that first babies were, indeed, slightly more likely to be born late , at 41 weeks or later, compared with other babies (second-borns, third-borns, etc.)  The results showed that a firstborn baby has a 15 to 16 percent chance of being born late, compared with a 9 or 10 percent chance for other babies. Most babies were born at 39 weeks of pregnancy.  However, the study also found that firstborns were also more likely to be born early, at 37 weeks or earlier.  So, in general, firstborns were less likely to be born on time, said Downey, who is the author of " Think Stats " (O'Reilly Media, 2011). It's possible that first babies may be less likely to be on time because the date of conception is not accurate, Downey said.  Dr. Jill Rabin, chief of ambulatory care, obstetrics and gynecology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., noted that a baby's due date is an estimate, and it's normal for babies to arrive two weeks before or after that day. Therefore, although parents may perceive a baby to be "late" if it arrives two weeks after the due date, this is not really the case.  "When you're expecting a first baby...you're locked on to the due date, and you expect the baby on that due date," Rabin said. But even if a woman thinks she knows exactly when she conceived, "it still can be two weeks high or low, and it's considered normal," she added.  Rabin said there is no known biological reason why firstborn babies would be more likely to be early or late.  After 42 weeks of pregnancy, a baby is considered overdue, Rabin said, and doctors become concerned about complications, such as an aging placenta that is not able to deliver proper nutrition to the baby.   According to the Mayo Clinic , a woman may be more likely to have an overdue baby if the baby is male. Will the royal heir be a boy?   Follow Rachael Rettner @RachaelRettner . Follow LiveScience @livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Original article on LiveScience.com .       You'd Also Like         Length of a Healthy Pregnancy Surprisingly Variable  LiveScience         Standing for Long Hours During Pregnancy May Affect Babies' Growth  LiveScience         Middleton's 2nd Pregnancy: Is Short Spacing Healthy?  LiveScience         Nearly 1 in 4 Women Are Obese Before Pregnancy  LiveScience           Latest on Royal Baby: Are Firstborns More Likely to Be Late?       Vaginal Birth vs. C-Section: Pros & Cons         These 2 Genes May Increase the Risk for Extreme Morning Sickness         Pythons Are Cold-Blooded Killers, But At Least They're Not Negligent Mothers         Prenatal Genetic Screening Tests: Benefits & Risks         Woman Gives Birth in the Red Sea (But Here's Why You Shouldn't)         Little Legs, Big Impact: Baby's Kicks Pack a Punch in Mom's Womb           Author Bio     Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer   Rachael has been with Live Science since 2010. She has a masters degree in journalism from New York University's Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program. She also holds a Bachelor of Science in molecular biology and a Master of Science in biology from the University of California, San Diego.    Rachael Rettner, Senior Writer on                Science Newsletter: Subscribe    Submit      Follow Us                 Most Popular      If You Want Your Friend to Vaccinate Their Kids, Don't Try to Change Their Mind       65 Pounds of Plastic Trash Tore This Whale Apart From The Inside       How (and Where) Did Hannibal Cross the Alps? Experts Finally Have Answers       Have Archaeologists Discovered the Tomb of King Tut's Wife? Maybe.       This Pouched Rat Can Sniff Out Tuberculosis in Kids                         Home About Us    Company   Company Info  About Us  Contact Us  Advertise with Us  Using Our Content  Licensing & Reprints  Terms of Use  Copyright Policy  Privacy Policy     Network   Top Ten Reviews  Tom's Guide  Laptop Mag  Tom's Hardware  Business News Daily  Tom's IT Pro  Space.com  Live Science  Active Junky  ShopSavvy  AnandTech  Dignifyed       FOLLOW US            Subscribe    SUBMIT        Copyright © All Rights Reserved.                            Join Club Momme for exclusive access to giveaways, discounts and more!  Sign up                         Sign up  /  Login  to Mom.me!                  Sign up  /  Login           Pregnancy     Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy 101  Being Pregnant   Baby Names      The Kids     Baby  Toddler  Little Kid  Tween  Teen     Lifestyle     Food  Fashion & Beauty  Entertainment  Horoscopes  Pets   Home & DIY    Work & Career    Health      News      Community        Check Out Our Latest Videos    Pregnancy 101    Latina Mom           Join our new mom community!  join now    lets be social              About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquires    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us    2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                   Pregnancy  I Really Wanted to Be Pregnant ... Until I Was           Pregnancy  Baby Registry Items for the On-the-Go Mom           Pregnancy  #SorryNotSorry, No One Is Allowed in the Delivery Room Wi...                                           Pregnancy   How Accurate are Due Dates?                     by Shannon Philpott Apr 01, 2014      Photograph by Getty Images/PhotoAlto The anticipation of knowing exactly when your baby will be born is exciting. When a physician determines your due date, however, it's not always a guarantee of the day your child will be born. Due dates are determined based on a number of factors, including your menstrual cycles and the baby's measurements, which can predict your baby's expected date of delivery within a week or two. RELATED: Dr. Drai Evaluating Your Cycles Due dates are accurate if you have regular monthly periods; obstetricians often calculate the due date based on the first day of a woman's last menstrual period, says Dr. Draion Burch, Pennsylvania-based obstetrician-gynecologist. However, women who have irregular periods can have inaccurate dates determined, he says. Burch recommends confirming due dates within the first trimester to improve the accuracy of the due date. Analyzing Baby's Size Due dates are also calculated based on the baby's body length during an ultrasound between eight and 12 weeks of pregnancy, according to Dr. Sachchidananda Maiti, England-based obstetrician and gynecologist. This method is more accurate than calculating through menstrual dates, he says, but it is not as good at dating your due date if you had assisted conception with fertility drugs and treatments. Doctors usually give women a range between 38 and 42 weeks of a pregnancy as the anticipated delivery time. Deciphering Accuracy Due dates are often referred to as estimated due dates because a woman's cycle and the baby's growth can vary, says Deena Blumenfeld, Pennsylvania-based Lamaze certified childbirth educator. "Only 5 percent of women give birth on their due dates, so we often tell moms that it is more like a due months," she says. Although premature delivery is possible, most women deliver between 37 and 42 weeks. Women aren't officially overdue until after 42 weeks of pregnancy, says Blumenfeld. RELATED: Shining Light Prenatal Education Measuring Baby's Growth Although your due date may be determined based on an ultrasound or your menstrual cycle, a margin of error with the date's accuracy is possible because of the baby's growth, says Blumenfeld. Babies grow and develop at different rates in the womb, just as they do on the outside, she says. "There is a range of normal for fetal development and that affects when labor begins," says Blumenfeld.   Explore More:  being pregnant         RELATED  Tips on Sleeping Better in the Third Trimester                                   Popular on Mom.me          The Kids  10 Life-Changing Tips to Make Your Home So Much Cleaner           News  Why This Breast Milk Photo Is So Mind-Blowing           Baby  10 Dark Parenting Truths We Never Talk About           Baby  Must Know Rules for Visiting a New Mom           The Kids  10 Signs You’re Not Done Having Babies        More from pregnancy       I Really Wanted to Be Pregnant ... Until I Was     Mar 21, 2018                             Baby Registry Items for the On-the-Go Mom     Feb 27, 2018                             #SorryNotSorry, No One Is Allowed in the Delivery Room With Me     Feb 08, 2018                                  Baby Names Inspired by Olympic Gold Medalists     Feb 07, 2018                             I Never Loved My Husband More Than When I Was Giving Birth     Feb 06, 2018                             Grieving a Miscarriage Is The Loneliest Thing Ever     Feb 05, 2018                                  What to REALLY Expect the Second Pregnancy     Jan 29, 2018                             Eating These Foods Can Raise Baby's IQ     Jan 25, 2018                             8 Things You Need to Do Before You Have Your First Baby     Jan 19, 2018                           More Results           Mom.me is the modern mom’s parenting source. Sign up for our must read newsletter!  Join Now    let's be social                  About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquiries    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us     2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                     Sign up  /  Login           Pregnancy     Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy 101  Being Pregnant   Baby Names      The Kids     Baby  Toddler  Little Kid  Tween  Teen     Lifestyle     Food  Fashion & Beauty  Entertainment  Horoscopes  Pets   Home & DIY    Work & Career    Health      News      Community & Giveaways        Check Out Our Latest Videos    Pregnancy 101    Latina Mom           Mom.me is the modern mom’s parenting source. Sign up for our must read newsletter!  Join Now    lets be social              About Us    Privacy Policy    Terms and Conditions    Media/PR Inquires    Advertise on Mom.me    Contact Us    2018 Whalerock Digital Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved.                    Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea  Try floating instead. By Jeanne Faulkner, R.N.  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email     I have two friends who are due at the end of August. Both are first timers, healthy and had fairly easy pregnancies. There's been a little nausea here and there and a few aches and pains, but other than that they've both been really fortunate to have lovely pregnancies. They're both eager to meet their daughters, but one is counting down the days to her due date like she's going on a cruise. "Twenty seven more days" she posts on her Facebook page. The date is so embedded in her mind that frankly I'm a little worried. What's going to happen when she gets close to her due date and there's no sign of labor? What if she cruises right on past it? Will she be disappointed and impatient? Will she start doubting her body? She can't cancel the trip, but she might be tempted to change her travel plans. My other friend is taking a more laid back approach. She knows she's going on a cruise pretty soon. She's packed and ready to go, but she's not sure of the actual launch date. If labor doesn't start by her due date, that's cool. A little sooner, a little later doesn't much matter. It's still going to be one heck of a big trip. I've written before that due dates are only an estimate of when your baby's going to arrive. It's not an etched in stone appointment. First time moms, if left alone to go into labor naturally tend to be pregnant for about 41 weeks and 1 day. Women who've had babies before tend to deliver around 40 weeks and 3 days. Only about 10% of women go longer than 42 weeks. That's average. Some deliver earlier and some go a little longer and it's almost always completely normal. A little frustrating, maybe, but still normal. Your due date is set at 40 weeks and many care providers emphasize that anything after 38 weeks is considered full term. Frankly I don't think that's cool. It just sets women up for disappointment. Two weeks before her due date she starts thinking "any day now." When her due date crawls past and nothing happens, it's disheartening. If she still has a week or so to go, it feels like torture. It also sets her up think she (or her doctor/midwife) needs to intervene to get things going. This is where a lot of inductions come from ; from the impression that since labor hasn't already started naturally, then it's probably never going to start unless somebody starts it with medicine. That's not terribly logical. Most of the time when women go past their due date, nothing's wrong with them or their babies. They're just not done yet. Let it be. Your body knows what to do so much better than you give it credit for. Unless there's some indication that there's a problem, just chill. It's going to happen. No one has ever been pregnant forever. I prefer the idea of a floating due date. I think it would be kinder and more accurate to tell women, "your baby will be here sometime near the end of August or beginning of September." Then, women won't think there's anything wrong with them. I've heard so many women say, "My body just wouldn't go into labor so my doctor had to induce me." Well, of course, your body will go into labor. That's what it was designed to do. Maybe it won't go into labor on one specific date, but geez, have a little patience and flexibility, will ya? I think women need a reward strategy for enduring the last days and weeks of pregnancy. It doesn't have to be anything big or expensive, but every day you go past your due date, give yourself a treat. Go to a movie, buy some new socks, make a pan of brownies, get someone to paint your toenails or give you a massage, watch a Sex and the City marathon. It doesn't really matter what the reward is, as long as it gives you something enjoyable to look forward to help take the sting out of waiting for labor. Due dates set the stage for the unpredictable nature of parenting. Labor is only the beginning. There are so many things you don't really have any control over. When those things come up, sometimes the best way of dealing with them is to just let it be. You don't always have to do anything when things aren't going exactly as expected. It's not going to be the cruise you planned on anyway. It's going to be a different trip altogether. Just sit back and wait for things to happen in their own good time. It's not about the schedule. It's not about the destination. It's about the journey. Jeanne Faulkner, R.N ., lives in Portland, Oregon with her husband and five children. More about Jeanne This Fit Pregnancy blog is intended for educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace medical advice from your physician. Before initiating any exercise program, diet or treatment provided by Fit Pregnancy, you should seek medical advice from your primary caregiver.            Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                  Menu      Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   X    Cancel  Join/Login    Close  Join Now  Log In  Subscribe  Getting Pregnant  Back Getting Pregnant  All Getting Pregnant Topics Ovulation Reproductive Age Maximizing Your Fertility Pre-Pregnancy Health Trying to Conceive Dealing With Infertility Genetics  Pregnancy  Back Pregnancy  All Pregnancy Topics Signs of Pregnancy Pregnancy Week-by-Week Giving Birth Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Symptoms Due Date Calculator Pregnancy Complications Fetal Development Gender Prediction Baby Showers  Baby Names  Back Baby Names  All Baby Names Topics Baby Girl Names Most Popular Names Names by Origin Twin Names Baby Boy Names Names by Religion Celebrity Baby Names Baby Name Quizzes  Baby  Back Baby  All Baby Topics Newborn Care Crying Baby Health Baby Development Safety Gear Breastfeeding Diapers Sleep Issues Feeding Nursery  Toddler  Back Toddler  All Toddler Topics Preschool Activities Behavior & Discipline Toddler Development Milestones Potty Training Starting School Health Safety Childcare  Big Kid  Back Big Kid  All Big Kid Topics Education Health Food & Nutrition Bullying & School Problems Child Development Safety Manners & Responsibility  Fun  Back Fun  All Fun Topics Birthdays Indoor Activities Outdoor Activities Arts & Crafts Printable Coloring Pages Kids' Entertainment Best Toys Holidays Family Vacation Ideas  Health  Back Health  All Health Topics ADD & ADHD Allergies Autism Cold & Flu Cough Down Syndrome Emergency Aid Fever Medication & Vitamins Obesity Rashes Stomach Aches Vaccines  Parenting  Back Parenting  All Parenting Topics Positive Parenting Parenting Style Celebrity Parents Family Dynamics Divorce Home Adoption Just for Mom Money Toy Recalls Stroller Recalls  Food  Back Food  All Food Topics Family Recipes Baby Food Toddler Finger Food Recipes Hints & Tips Healthy Eating Birthdays Holiday Recipes Quick & Easy Meals Food For Pregnant Women  Holiday  Back Holiday  All Holiday Topics 4th of July Halloween  Video  Shop  More  Back More Newsletters Contests ParentsIRL  Our Magazines  Back Our Magazines  Fit Pregnancy and Baby From the Latest Issue Emily Skye On Being Pregnant for the First Time: 'I Feel Like a Superhero!' 7 Soothing Cradles for Your Baby 5 Nursery Trends We Love  See More Pinterest Twitter  Parents  Subscribe to Parents From the Latest Issue 16 Tech Finds That Will Change Your Family’s Life 8 Night Time Favorite Baby Gear Boys vs Girls: How to Tailor Your Parenting Techniques  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Family Fun  Subscribe to Family Fun From the Latest Issue The 2018 FamilyFun Travel Awards Simplify Lunch: Mix-and-Match Ideas Your Kids Will Love 26 Fun (and Totally Extra) Ways to Decorate Your Dyed Easter Eggs  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Parents Latina From the Latest Issue How to Talk to Your Kids About Race 10 Best Kept Secrets from Cleaning Pros These Latina Moms Are Taking Over the Beauty Industry  See More Facebook  Ser Padres  Subscribe to Ser Padres From the Latest Issue 8 cosas que te dicen que tu hijo ya no es un bebÃ© (FOTOS) 6 mentiras que tu hijo necesita escuchar (FOTOS) GuÃ­a de disciplina online: corrige el comportamiento de tu hijo en 7 dÃ­as  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   Home Pregnancy & Birth Giving Birth Labor & Delivery The Truth About Due Dates The Truth About Due Dates  Only 5 percent of women give birth when they think they will. Read on to find out when your baby will make his appearance. By Lauren Picker from Parents Magazine  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Text  Email  Print 7 Must-Know Truths About Due Dates RELATED:  A New Test Can Predict Your Actual Due Date Bet on Unpredictability As a journalist who's accustomed to meeting deadlines, I wasn't surprised when, during my first pregnancy, I went into labor on my due date. The second time around was another matter. My due date came and went. And went, and went, and went. It wasn't until the day before my doctor planned to induce me—at nearly 42 weeks pregnant —that I finally went into labor. My experience brought home one of the essential truths of pregnancy: Your due date is anything but predictable. Still, your doctor needs to determine one that's as accurate as possible so that any necessary tests are done at the correct time. "And knowing how far along you are makes it easier for your obstetrician to see that your baby is growing properly," explains ob-gyn Joanne Stone, M.D., coauthor of Pregnancy for Dummies . RELATED: How You'll Know if You're in Labor Wondering when to expect your new arrival? Find out now. The Dating Game To calculate your due date , your doctor will take the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), and add 280 days (the equivalent of 40 weeks). For example, if your last period started on September 1, your due date would be June 7. This method assumes that your period arrives like clockwork every 28 days. If your cycles are longer, you're likely to deliver later than your due date; if they're shorter, expect to deliver earlier. A first-trimester sonogram is more trustworthy. Your doctor measures the length of the fetus and size of the gestational sac. If these numbers don't match up with what your LMP would predict, she may adjust your due date. But even if your doctor can pinpoint your due date with laserlike precision, don't expect your baby to show up right on schedule. Because, for all the windows into your womb, no one really understands what triggers labor. One possible (but, as my experience shows, imperfect) predictor: your past performance. "Patients tend to repeat what they did in a previous pregnancy," says Iffath Hoskins, M.D., executive director of the Women's Service at the Memorial Health University Medical Center, in Savannah, Georgia. If you're a first-time mom, look at your mother's childbirth history. "If your mother delivered one week past her due date, you are more apt to deliver one week past your due date as well," explains Fredric D. Frigoletto, Jr., M.D., chief of obstetrics at Massachusetts General Hospital, in Boston. Sooner Than Expected Most women—about 80 percent—deliver sometime between 37 and 42 weeks. So where does that leave the other 20 percent? About 11 percent deliver prematurely. Experts aren't sure why some women go into labor early. Possible risk factors include carrying multiples or having an abnormally shaped uterus. There may also be a connection between preterm labor and an infection such as bacterial vaginosis. Even your build can play a role—women who weigh less than 110 pounds are at slightly higher risk. Waiting It Out Once you've passed your due date, you may wonder whether your baby will arrive later than 42 weeks, or post-term. While Caucasian women tend to have slightly longer pregnancies, as do women under 30, no one knows why some babies take their own sweet time. However, your baby's gender could be a clue: One study found that boy fetuses are more likely to go beyond their due date than girls. Beginning at 40 or 41 weeks, expect to undergo weekly, then twice-weekly, nonstress tests. If your pregnancy progresses beyond this point, there's a risk that the quality of the placenta will deteriorate, the amniotic-fluid level will decline, or that your baby will pass a bowel movement, known as meconium. "Babies begin to practice breathing, and they can aspirate the meconium into their lungs—causing postdelivery problems," Dr. Frigoletto says. In addition, because your baby is still growing, you're at higher risk of needing a C-section . For these reasons, your doctor may want to induce labor once you hit 42 weeks. Whether you give birth exactly on your due date—or in the weeks before or after—doesn't really matter in the long run. After all, you'll just be happy to meet your newborn whenever she arrives. All content on this Web site, including medical opinion and any other health-related information, is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual situation. Use of this site and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship. Always seek the direct advice of your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others. Your Pregnancy: How To Calculate Your Due Date  More in Labor & Delivery      New Moms Describe What Labor Is Really Like       The Stages of Labor and Birth in a Vaginal Delivery       A Baby's View of Birth       Labor Support Tips for Dads       Premature Rupture of Membranes (PROM)       Writing a Birth Plan     Shop Links        Diaper Bags  Prenatal Vitamins  Baby Monitors  Breast Pumps  Plus-Size Maternity Clothes  Changing Pads  High Chairs  Nursery Furniture  Baby Clothes  Baby Toys  Maternity Clothing  Car Seats  Pacifiers  Pregnancy Pillows  Cameras  Strollers  Baby Strollers  Parenting Books  Shop More    Your Account Help Update Your Account Member Benefits Newsletter Customer Service Log in Join now! Log out   Parents.com About Us Baby Names Pregnancy Tracker Baby Development Recalls Video Sitemap   Parents Magazine Subscribe Digital Editions Gift Subscriptions Renew Subscriptions Customer Service Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Affiliate Program   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Follow Parents.com  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices      close                 Menu   Home  About Us  Contact Us  Media Kit         Add will appear here               Home Birth The Odds of Baby Arriving on Their Due Date?     The Odds of Baby Arriving on Their Due Date?           Without a doubt, you’ve heard lots of conflicting information on what a due date actually is.  Most believe the due date is a deadline. If Baby doesn’t arrive on that date, she’s late. If Baby comes before then, she’s automatically “premature.”        Some have theorized that due dates are an invention of modern medicine, and have become an excuse for doctors to perform c-sections. While that’s not what we believe, we do know that due dates are often inaccurate .  Baby should not be expected to arrive on an exact day (unless you’ve scheduled a c-section).  In fact, Baby should not be rushed at all unless there’s a medical reason to do so. According to the March of Dimes , a non-profit that “works to end premature birth, birth defects and infant mortality:”  “Labor should be induced only for medical reasons to protect the health of you and your baby. If your pregnancy is healthy, it’s best to let labor begin on its own without inducing labor.” // MarchofDimes.org  Due Date Statistics  Let’s take a look at the statistics taken from a casual, online survey with 11,704 participants. You can also take the       Due Date Statistics Let’s take a look at the statistics taken from a casual, online survey with 11,704 participants. You can also take the Note: The survey results were not verified. They rely on the honesty and accuracy of online participants. You can also take the survey here at SpaceFem.com.   What is the probability of spontaneous labor after 35 weeks?   Out of 11,1114 women, 8,464 went into labor spontaneously. This equals 76% of the total participants.   What is the probability of giving birth within X days of your due date?   Do babies come on their due dates? Not really, but they usually come sometime around it. Only 4.3% of babies arrived on their due date. Comparatively, 61.6% of non-induced babies arrive within one week of their due date.       What is the average length of pregnancy in weeks?    31.8% of babies were born at 40 weeks  25.7%  were born at 39 weeks  16.1% of babies were born at 41 weeks  13.5% were born at 38 weeks  6.4% were born at 37 weeks  2.8% were born at 36 weeks  2.1 % were born at 42 weeks  1.5% were born at 35 weeks  0.1% were born at 43 weeks.    What is the average length of pregnancy for subsequent births?   If your first baby comes early, will your second baby be early, too? If your second baby arrives late, does that mean your third will come late as well? According to the survey, on average, subsequent babies arrive 0.18 days later than the previous baby.  The average baby #2 came 0.44 days later than baby #1, based on 900 mothers.  The average baby #3 came 0.73 days earlier than baby #2, based on 187 mothers.  The average baby #3 came 0.58 days earlier than baby #1, based on 184 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.92 days earlier than baby #3, based on 50 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.19 days earlier than baby #2, based on 47 mothers.  The average baby #4 came 0.38 days earlier than baby #1, based on 48 mothers.    What is the length of pregnancy for first-time moms compared to second- and third-time moms?   On average, a first-time mom has her baby at 39 weeks 5 days. This is the equivalent of 54.8% of first-time moms giving birth on or before their due date compared to 56.7% of second-time moms, and 59.5% of third-time mothers.   Is there a connection between length of pregnancy and the type of delivery?    9% of the 8,670 women who went into labor spontaneously underwent a c-section.  19% of 2,343 women who were induced underwent a c-section.  Is there a correlation between induction and increased incidence of cesarean? You decide.   What is the relationship between the length of pregnancy and birth weight?   Are “late” babies huge? On average, “late” babies are generally bigger than “early” ones but not by much. The difference between a baby born at 39 weeks and one born at 41 weeks is about 300 grams.   What is the probability of induction after the due date?   Most doctors will induce a mom rather than let her get past her due date. According to the March of Dimes, however: “If your health care provider talks to you about inducing labor, ask if you can wait until at least 39 weeks to be induced. This gives your baby’s lungs and brain the time they need to fully grow and develop before he’s born.” // MarchofDimes.org   Is there a correlation between the age of the mother and the probability of spontaneous labor?   It has been theorized that the age of the mother has something to do with when labor sets in. Is it possible that the average due date would change depending on ethnicity, age or even country of origin? According to the survey, about the same number of women give birth on day 279 as 287.   Are more babies born on a full moon?   There is no correlation between the phase of the moon and when babies are born.   What is the most common day of the week for babies to be born?   According to the survey, the most common day for babies to be born is Thursday while the least common is Saturday.  Sunday 10.6% spontaneous deliveries and 1.6% induced births.  Monday 11% spontaneous deliveries and 3.2% induced births.  Tuesday 10.7% spontaneous deliveries 4.1% induced births.  Wednesday 10.9% spontaneous deliveries 3.9% induced births.  Thursday 13.1% spontaneous deliveries 4.5% induced births.  Friday 10.6% spontaneous deliveries 3.9% induced births.  Saturday 10% spontaneous deliveries 2.3 % induced births.    What does it mean if I’m 40 weeks pregnant?   Congratulations! You’ve hit your due date and Baby is fully developed! Instead of stressing out that Baby’s not here yet, relax and enjoy the anticipation. 52% of the women surveyed were still pregnant at 40 weeks. 28.79% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 3 days (on or before 40W,3D). It’s normal to still be pregnant at this point. If your doctor or midwife is supportive of natural induction, consider these natural induction methods .  34.49% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 4 days (on or before 40W, 4D)  46.57% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 6 days (on or before 40W, 6D)  57.07% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 8 days (on or before 41W, 1D)  68.61% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 12 days (on or before 41W, 5D)  73.44% of babies were born spontaneously within the next 21 days (on or before 43W, 0D)  26.56% of babies were induced.    I know the exact date I conceived. Can I calculate my exact due date?   Typically, due dates have an 8- to 10-day variation as they are calculated from the last menstrual period, not date of conception. The question then arises, is it possible to calculate an exact due date based on conception date? According to the survey, the standard deviation does not improve even if you know the exact second your baby was conceived. Babies are individuals, just like adults. Some need more time in the womb than others.   Which babies are born earlier, boys or girls?   The average arrival time for babies of both sexes  is 39 weeks and 5 days.   Do inductions bias due date  statistics?   What if all the women who were induced were meant to give birth late? Doesn’t this change the average amount of time a pregnancy should last? Not really, according to the survey. If we assume each induction was actually a late birth, the average median would shift by 2 days.     First Published at www.spacefem.com. Featured image source: www.sheknows.com         About  Latest Posts  Leah Owner, Founder at Karangis Collections Leah was born and raised in Kenya. She has a degree in psychology and divides her time between article writing, blogging and creating original African pieces. She provides her writing services independently and can be found odesk. When she isn’t hunched over a computer, she’s out being inspired by nature.  Latest posts by Leah ( see all )   Things to Do if You Don’t Celebrate Christmas - December 14, 2017    Looking for a Hospital to Give Birth At? - December 6, 2016    Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment of Placenta Previa - November 18, 2016  SHARING IS CARING! email Facebook Google+ Twitter Pinterest Reddit                   Tweet         Pin It   Related Posts       Orgasmic Birth: It’s Real and How to Have One   Tashana  July 26, 2017          10 Ways to Cut Down on Pain During Labor   Chrissie  November 20, 2015          How to Approach Your Birth Plan   Leah  November 6, 2015          10 Things You Need to Know Before Your Episiotomy   Lori  June 8, 2016     Leave a Reply Facebook Comments Default Comments G+ Comments Disqus Comments  Specify a Disqus shortname at Social Comments options page in admin panel          Follow Us On         Birth      Epidurals: 6 Things You Need To Know       11 Easy Ways to Naturally Induce Labor       What to Bring to the Hospital for You and Baby       List of Foods You Can Eat during Labor       Why You Should Ignore Your Due Date     Product Reviews      Push Gift Ideas for New Moms       Yoga during Pregnancy       5 Best Body Pillows for Pregnancy!       A List of the Best Nursing Covers       Who Makes the Best Nursing Bras for Large Breasts?     Mother’s Day      What to Get a Pregnant Wife for Mother’s Day       How To Celebrate Mother’s Day while pregnant       8 Wonderful Mother’s Day Presents from Unborn Baby       Fun and Creative Mother’s Day Pregnancy Announcements       The Best Expecting Mom Mother’s Day Gifts     Categories   Advice & Tips   Baby Shower   Birth   Events & Announcements   Health & Nutrition   Holidays   Pregnancy Planning   Products                       Copyright © 2018. Babyprepping.com    Privacy Policy  DMCA Policy  Terms Of Use  Curation Policy  Sitemap         Babyprepping.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.                   Here's what you'll learn in our FREE guide            How to own your birthing experience The optimal pregnancy diet Which prenatal test are safe and necessary? Which childbirth classes do you really need?  How to bond with baby before birth             Send Me My Guide!            x         Sign up for our newsletter and receive a FREE guide! "The Most Important Pregnancy Decisions You'll Have to Make"              Get Guide!          x                                                                                                        Metro    Sports    Business & Tech    Opinion    Politics    Lifestyle    Arts    Cars    Real Estate      Most popular on BostonGlobe.com        Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate         Tom Ashbrook asks: Is there room for redemption?         The troubled truth behind Masters’ champ Patrick Reed         How much of ‘Chappaquiddick’ is actually true?                      Today's Paper    Magazine    Obituaries    Weather    Comics    Crossword    The Big Picture                        Menu                         Lifestyle     Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate      Watch live: Mark Zuckerberg testifies before members of Senate                       Evan Horowitz  Get ready. Your baby is coming early.                 Share via e-mail     To   Add a message   Your e-mail                                              Print           Comments                                               By Evan Horowitz  Globe Staff  July 17, 2014        When you’re pregnant, a lot of conversations involve the same few questions. Are you having a boy or a girl? Have you picked a name? Did you hear about this great book (or great sleeping pillow or great technique to make your unborn baby smarter)? Above all, though, the question you get asked is: When are you due? The obvious answer is that you’re due on your “due date,” the magic day that your doctor calculated based on a standard 40-week pregnancy. But as it happens, the odds of delivering on your due date are extremely small. Only about 1 in 30 women give birth on their due date. You are more likely to give birth a week early than you are to give birth “on time.”  When do women really give birth?  The most likely birthdate is seven days early, according to a huge sample of birth information put together for the Globe by Brookings Institute researcher and WhenToExpect.com co-creator Matt Chingos.             Advertisement     These figures include not just “spontaneous” deliveries but also planned C-sections and planned inductions. It’s possible that these procedures, which are commonly performed in the week before the actual due date, account for some of the early births. Nevertheless, other researchers who have screened out planned births and looked just at spontaneous births have found a similar pattern , which suggests that babies still like to show up early, even when they’re uncoaxed.  Do first children arrive just as early?     Get The Weekender in your inbox:  The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond.        Sign Up      Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here    First children tend to stay put for a little longer. On average, they show up two or three days early. Second and third children arrive five to six days early.            Does it matter if it’s a boy or a girl?   Sex doesn’t seem to matter much. Boys and girls arrive at roughly the same time.            How about younger moms vs. older moms?  The older you are, the more likely you are to give birth early. Teenage moms tend to give birth about three days early, while moms in their 40s trek to the hospital about a week in advance. Part of this is due to birth order, as teenage moms are much more likely to be carrying their first children.            Can these numbers tell me when I’m going to give birth?  Unfortunately, no. At best, they might give you a better sense of the odds and help you win some bets with friends. Still, if there is one clear lesson in the data, it’s this: don’t wait until the last minute. Pack your hospital bag, settle on a name, stock up on sleep, and make sure your friends and family are primed to help. Chances are, your baby is coming sooner than you think.     More from Evan Horowitz:   Is it time for President Mike Bloomberg?  What if the polls are wrong?  How far can the stock market fall?  With opioids, can you fight addiction without causing pain?  Will the GE move really make a difference?     Evan Horowitz digs through data to find information that illuminates the policy issues facing Massachusetts and the United States. He can be reached at evan.horowitz@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @GlobeHorowitz       Loading comments...                                      Top 10 Trending Articles    Viewed  Commented  Shared       Most Popular in lifestyle            Real journalists. Real journalism.  Subscribe to The Boston Globe today.       Subscribe Now  Digital Access  Home Delivery  Gift Subscriptions  My Account  Manage my Account  Mobile Customer Service  Sign Up For Newsletters    Contact  Help  FAQs  Globe newsroom  Advertise  Order back issues    Social  Facebook  Twitter  Google+    More  ePaper  News in Education  Archives  Privacy policy  Terms of service  Terms of purchase  Work at Boston Globe Media   © 2018 Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC                                       datayze » Pregnancy Pregnancy Business & Motivation Writing Assistance Baby Name Website & Search Engine Optimization Financial Games Photography » Labor Probability Calculator Miscarriage Probability Chart Miscarriage Odds Reassurer Labor Probability Calculator Daily Labor Probability Chart Pregnancy - Week By Week Time to Conception Estimator Articles About Contact    Labor Probability Calculator  Estimates the probability of a woman going into labor on a given day based on where she is relative to her due date     Select Due Date:     Odds of spontaneous labor: Today: In the next three days: By the weekend: By this time next week:  Custom date ranges: Odds of spontaneous labor  By  :   On  :   After  :   Between  and :      Probability Density Function (PDF) of Spontaneous Labor with an expected due date of April 10th, 2018 given that today is April 10th .  Move your cursor over the graph to see the associated probabilities. Click on the graph to lock/unlock your cursor in place.   Daily Probability Chart          About the Labor Predictor  Will you go into labor today? Tomorrow? Next week? The labor predictor estimates the odds of spontaneous labor on a given day based on where you are relative to your due date using statistical modeling.  Take the Probabilities With You  Wondering what the probability is of going into labor before your due date, or before your induction date? Want to bookmark the Labor Probability Calculator with all it's data so you don't have to keep re-entering your date info it day after day? Click here to get a parameterized URL.  About the Model Prior research has shown that the distribution of spontaneous labor approximates a normal distribution with a standard deviation of 9 [1]
  or 13 days [2].  These studies provide the initial building blocks for our model, but fail to paint a complete picture.    
  Neither distribution does a good job of estimating the number of preterm deliveries.  The CDC has found that 9.6% of babies are born prematurely , 
  before 37 weeks.  The normal distribution based on [1] and [2], however, would predict less than 3% of babies
  are born prematurely (.03% and 2.7% respectively).
  In fact,
  [1] specifically excluded preterm deliveries from their analysis which
  is why their model predicts so few preterm babies, which explains why it's model predicts so few of them.  The normal distribution is favored in these types of applications for it's simplicity and tendency to fit the data.
  In this case, however, the normal distribution is likely an over simplification.
  A key drawback is that the normal distribution is a symmetric distribution.  
  That means two points equally far from the mean will have the same probability.  A symmetric distribution that predicts 10% of babies
  will be born before 37 weeks will also predict 10% of babies will be born after 43 weeks.  For all the births prior to 30 weeks,
  there would be a similar number of births after 50 weeks.
  Additionally, in a symmetric distribution 
  the median (point
  which half of all women would have gone into labor), is equal to the mode (most common day to go into labor.)  In prior studies,
  however, the mode date is typically after the median [2]. Although not scientific, conventional wisdom is that the most
  common day to go into labor is around 41 weeks. Taken together,
these data points suggests that a skewed normal distribution might be more appropriate.
The skewed normal distribution is a family of distributions that includes
the normal distribution, however the skewed normal distribution need not be symmetric.  Where the normal distribution is
defined by two parameters
(mean and standard deviation), the skewed normal distribution is defined by three (location, shape and scale).  Using mean squared error we identified a skewed normal
distribution that closely approximates the normal distribution identified with prior research (MSE of 0.002), accounted
for 10% of spontaneous labors occurring prematurely, and predicted roughly half of all women would go into labor before 
their due date and half after.   [1] H. Kieler; O. Axelsson; S. Nilsson; U. Waldenströ (1995). "The length of human pregnancy as calculated by 
    ultrasonographic measurement of the fetal biparietal diameter". Ultrasound in Obstetrics &
    Gynecology. 6 (5): 353–357. doi:10.1046/j.1469-0705.1995.06050353.x  [2] Bergsjø P, Denman DW 3rd, Hoffman HJ, Meirik O. (1990). 
    "Duration of human singleton pregnancy. A population-based study.". Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand: 197–207.   Differences between Datayze's model and those found on other websites The key difference between our model and every other model out there (that we know of) is our model better
  incorporates
  the possibility of preterm spontaneous labor.  Like [1], most online models predict the probability of spontaneous labor
  before 37 weeks is approximately zero. As you can see
     
 from the Full Chart we estimate the probability of spontaneous labor before 37 weeks as 9.6%, matching the number from the CDC .
  If you're past 37 weeks, this distinction will be less important.  
  Before 37 weeks and our model will serve you much better.  Differences between Labor Probability Chart and the Labor Probability Calculator You may notice the probabilities differ between the Labor Probability Chart  and the Labor Probability Calculator .  That is because the two apps are modeling two similar sounding, yet different events.  
  This Labor Probability 
  Chart shows the probability of spontaneous 
  labor for a pregnant woman without considering how far along
  she is in her pregnancy.  
  The Labor Probability Calculator shows the probability of spontaneous based on how far along she is
  by renormalizing the distribution to include only the possible remaining days in a woman's pregnancy.
  After all, for a woman who hasn't gone into labor by today the probability of spontaneous labor starting yesterday is, by definition, 0%.
  Statistically speaking it's the difference between the probability of labor at 40 weeks 0 days in general, p _labor (40w0d) ,
  and the probability of labor at 40 weeks 0 days for a woman who is already 39 weeks along, p _labor (40w0d|39WeeksAlong) .  This website is intended for general information & entertainment purposes only.  
  This website is not intended to be considered medical advice.  
  I am happy to answer questions about the apps, and the mathematics behind them.
  I cannot answer medical questions.   Pregnant and thinking ahead? You might enjoy our other pregnancy apps , including a Week by Week Pregnancy Calendar . If it's really early in your pregnancy you may be interested in our Miscarriage Odds Reassurer , which is designed to help ease any miscarriage fears by emphasizing the odds of carrying to birth rather than the odds of miscarriage, or our Daily Miscarriage Probability Chart which shows how the probability changes over the course of the first twenty weeks.  Wanting to become pregnant? Our Time to Conception Estimator can estimate how long it may take.  Have baby names on the brain? Try our Baby Name Apps , including Baby Name Uniqueness Analyzer or Baby Name Explorer .  Still can't find a name you like? Try the Unique Baby Name Generator or the Name Blender which generates new names based on
  the latest trends.   About · Terms of Use · Privacy Policy · Contact                                                      Expecting Science   Search    Primary Menu  Skip to content  About  The Best of Expecting Science  Contact         Search for:                  Pregnancy   Your Due Date Is Wrong–So When Is Labor Most Likely?   September 29, 2014  Amy Kiefer  16 Comments     Can we please stop with this due date nonsense already?  Yes, the due date is not a precise date , only an estimate. And yes,  most women will deliver within 2 weeks of their so called “due date”.  But the due date has bigger problems.   Actual birth data, from real pregnant women, shows that the due date is not only an imprecise delivery estimate–as any single day would be–it is 1-4 days too early . Statistically-speaking, it is biased. And bias is bad .  If you knew nothing about due dates, you might reasonably suppose that the due date is the average date of delivery.  And you’d be wrong. The due date is NOT the average delivery day of a large, modern reference sample of pregnant women. The due date is also NOT the day on which pregnant women most commonly deliver (the mode). It is NOT the day by which half of pregnant women have typically delivered, and half have not (the median). No, the average, the mode, and the median delivery days are all 1-4  days after the “due date “.  So why care about the due date at all? Well, modern medicine has given us one very concrete reason for concern: Due dates act as a medical deadline. Go a week past yours, and you will be urged to have labor induced. Go two weeks past and an induction is all but assured. If you have severe gestational diabetes, and your due date will likely be treated as a hard stop, and your doctor will insist on an induction at the 40 week mark.  So what IS a due date?  The “due date” comes from a calculation known as Naegele’s rule , in which 280 days are added to the first day of a woman’s last menstrual period.  Naegele’s rule has proved remarkably enduring. Naegele, a director at a German hospital, developed his rule in the early 1800s, long before ovulation predictor kits, over-the-counter pregnancy tests, prenatal ultrasounds, fetal nonstress tests, pitocin–in short, before all of modern obstetrics. His calculation of pregnancy length relied not only on the duration of actual, observable pregnancies, but was also greatly influenced by biblical scholarship indicating that the gestation of Christ lasted for ten lunar months .  Not surprisingly, Naegele’s rule has some problems. The first, imprecision , is pretty obvious to people with ovaries: His rule assumes menstrual cycles are consistent in length, exactly 28 days long, with ovulation occurring precisely on day 14. Ovulation is less predictable than that. And many, many women’s cycles are shorter or longer than 28 days. Have a longer cycle, and the due date will likely underestimate the real delivery date. Have a shorter cycle, and the due date may overestimate it.  The second problem, bias , is far more concerning:  The average actual delivery date is later than the one predicted by Naegele’s rule. This is especially true for first-time mothers. In a study of 114 Caucasian women , women with 1 or more deliveries under their belts delivered an average of 3 days after their due dates; first time mothers delivered an average of 8 days after their due dates. Another study of 1,514 women with reliable conceptions dates found that first-time mothers went an average of 4 days “late;” women with a previous birth went 2 days “late.”  Other large studies back up these findings: Naegele’s rule consistently underestimates the average delivery date by 2-4 days (see here ).  Note, though, that estimates apply best to Caucasian women. For unknown reasons, women of Asian or African ancestry tend to give birth about a full week earlier than do Caucasians .  Is there a more accurate way to calculate a “due date”?  Yes. One way is to shift Naegele’s rule. Adding 282 days to the first day of the last menstrual period, instead of 280, provides a more accurate estimate. But, if available, an estimate based on a first trimester ultrasound is the best option . Using ultrasound-based due dates, 92% of pregnancies delivered within the normal range of 37-42 weeks; using due dates, this percentage fell to 87%.  One day off. Two days off. Who really cares? Actually, this bias matters a lot. An estimate off by even a couple of days significantly raises the percentage of women regarded as post-term (past 42 weeks) , who are then urged to have inductions.  Consider the results of a UK study of over 24,000 women . The researchers studied inductions for post-term (past 42 week) pregnancies. When evaluated by ultrasound dates alone, they found the majority, 71.5% percent, of these pregnancies were not actually post-term.  So when are pregnant women actually most likely to deliver?  In her book Expecting Better , Emily Oster used the 2006 annual U.S. data for singleton births, from the Centers for Disease Control, to try to answer this question. She noted that in 2006 the most common week to deliver in was the 39th; about 30% of births occurred then. The data from 2012 look similar to those from 2006, but hint: there’s a problem with her approach.  What’s the problem? These data are fine for figuring out when a pregnant woman is most likely to deliver, assuming she is agnostic about how she delivers. But they are not particularly useful for figuring out when spontaneous labor is most likely. This is because the CDC birth data includes all deliveries. The CDC combines spontaneous births with scheduled inductions and c-sections, and these are typically scheduled for the 39th week of pregnancy.  Are there really enough scheduled inductions and c-sections to affect the distribution of births for the whole U.S.? Absolutely. Since 1990, the rate of medical inductions has more than doubled . In 2012, more than 1 in 5 pregnant women were induced, compared to just under 1 in 10 in 1990 . In 2012, 32.9% of women had c-sections, a 60% increase from 1996, and about half of these c-sections were scheduled.  To see how big the effect is, compare the CDC’s singleton birth data for 2012 with the same data from 1990:   Scheduled inductions and c-sections shift the bulk of the distribution to the left. In 1990, slightly more women delivered in their 40th week of pregnancy than in their 39th week, and about 10% made it to their 42nd week. In 2012, most women delivered in their 39th week, and only 5% delivered in their 42nd week.  This comparison is not perfect. In 1990, scheduled inductions and c-sections were commonplace, albeit less frequent than in 2012. Still, the 1990 data are closer to what would occur without medical intervention and are consistent with other historical data. A large Swedish study of births found that 10% of women go past 42 weeks . The distribution of births in Canada in 1972 and 1986 shows a similar pattern:   Now that I am full term, how likely is it that I will deliver in the next week?  As a full-term pregnant woman, the above graph did not address my central question: when was someone like me most likely go into labor? Predicting this using the average delivery day, while a superior approach to using the due date, is still suboptimal. This is because the distribution of births is skewed . In 2012, preterm births accounted for just under 12% of all U.S. births. These preterm births create a long tail that pulls the average delivery date to the left.  Moreover, by 37 weeks, I knew I was not going to deliver in my 35th week. It would be nice to update my delivery estimate with that knowledge. Boiled down to a simple question, what I wanted to know was: How likely am I to go into labor within the next week, considering that I have not yet given birth? Statisticians would call this the conditional probability of giving birth in a given week.  For the sake of comparison, the table below shows the conditional probabilities for 1990 and 2012.   *Note: the CDC data combine week 37-38 deliveries. The probabilities shown for week 37 are therefore for delivery over the next two weeks .  Until past the 40-week mark, the odds of labor in the next week are less than 50%.  Because it is standard medical practice to induce labor at 42 completed weeks, the chance of delivery by 42 weeks appears to be 100%. Of course, many of these births are not spontaneous, but induced. From historical data, it appears that without medical intervention 5-10% of women would deliver after 42 weeks.  Like this post? Don’t forget, sharing is sweet!    Advertisements            Like this post? Pass it on. Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Like this: Like  Loading...   Related    delivery Due Date post-dates Pregnancy preterm labor   Post navigation   Previous Post Trying to Bring On Labor? Forget Sex and Spicy Foods. Only Nipple Stimulation Works. Next Post Inducing Labor Past 39 Weeks Does Not Increase Your Chances of Having a C-Section     16 thoughts on “Your Due Date Is Wrong–So When Is Labor Most Likely?”        Rhea Marie  says:     October 1, 2014 at 10:47 pm      I love this topic.  Fortunately my OB was really relaxed about the due date, but I always feel bad for women who start to feel a lot of pressure to be induced when there isn’t an obvious reason to (like an ultrasound indicating there is potential for fetal distress/macrosomia/problems with amniotic fluid).  I had two due dates, May 4th, 2013 based on an ultrasound at 6 weeks and May 8th based on LMP.  I had the sweep on May 9th (after having an ultrasound where everything looked healthy– but the baby was definitely estimated to be over 9 lbs) and went into labor right away, and delivered May 11th (just past midnight); so about a week past my U/S due date and a few days past my LMP one.  Oh, and this reminded me of this site: http://spacefem.com/pregnant/charts/duedate0.php  Like Like   Reply         amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 6:23 pm      Nice that your doctor was relaxed and respectful of your wishes!  Did you baby end up over 9 lbs at birth? It sounds like weight estimation using ultrasounds can be pretty inaccurate.  Like Like   Reply         Rhea Marie  says:     October 23, 2014 at 12:02 am      They estimated 9 lbs 3 oz and he was 9 lbs 7 oz two days later when he was born. I think the accuracy probably depends a lot on the experience of the technician and quality of the machine.  Like Like              kra  says:     October 5, 2014 at 2:23 am      My due dates were calculated by last menstrual period; my firstborn was 10 days ‘early’ and my seconnd was nearly two weekes ‘late’.  Like Like   Reply         amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 6:22 pm      Were you bummed when the second one went two weeks late after the first coming early?  Like Liked by 1 person   Reply           amykiefer2014  says:     October 21, 2014 at 5:53 pm      The key here is that the above statement is true if labor is imminent. If it is say, a week away, then having an induction lowers the risk of a c-section.  After reading through all the research on this, the one take home message seems to be that after 41 weeks, having an induction is not going to raise your chances of a c-section; it will almost certainly lower it.  Like Like   Reply         Squique  says:     July 27, 2016 at 9:23 pm      Could you do (or have you already done) a review of the data on inducing labor in “elderly women” to prevent stillbirths? I am 41 years old and pregnant with my 4th child. I know the apparent standard practice is to induce at 39 weeks based on data from small study where is it suggested that stillbirth risk is that of younger women at that time. I’m vehemently opposed to the idea. I have had one experience with oxytocin after 2 completely unmedicated births and it was human torture. I am a physician in a non-OB field. In my perfunctory review of some data, I think there is excessive medicalization and intervention in birthing. Thank you.  Like Like   Reply         Amy Kiefer  says:     August 3, 2016 at 8:07 pm      Great idea–I am going to add it to my queue. I did not know that this was standard practice. Would you send me any info you have about this being standard and the alleged rationale?  Like Like   Reply           Lola  says:     October 26, 2016 at 7:38 pm      Another question I’d love to know… How do these stats change based on your previous children. For example: my son (healthy, normal pregnancy) came three weeks before his “due date.” So early no matter how you look at it really. What are my chances of having another early baby – are they increased at all? (Assuming another healthy pregancy, of course).  Like Like   Reply     Pingback: What I’ve Been Doing the Last Few Weeks | Expecting Science     Pingback: Parce qu’on ne prend pas rendez-vous avec bébé         Saskia W  says:     July 10, 2017 at 6:14 pm      Hi, just want to add to this terrific post that in both France and Germany (where I’ve had prenatal appointments) the due date is calculated to be a week and two weeks later, respectively, than in the US (where I’m based).  I wonder whether in Asian / African countries the standard calculation is also different, to reflect the earlier delivery cited in the study you linked to above?  (Also, since that study was based in London, sampling women of African or Asian *descent*, I wonder whether there’s a difference between African / Asian women actually in African / Asian countries and those in Caucasian-majority countries?)  Thanks again for your intriguing discoveries and discussions!  Like Like   Reply         RH  says:     September 8, 2017 at 2:30 pm      I’m the exception to the rule not to count on the due date being the delivery date.  My two vaginal births occurred on their due dates.  with #1, my water broke the day before my due date and I was induced the next morning and delivered in the evening.  With #3, I went into natural labor at home in the morning at about 9 am, arrived at the hospital at 6cm at about 1 p.m and delivered at the hospital at 2:46 (weirdly enough on the operating table as they were preparing to put me out for an emergency c-section due to fetal distress when I said “the baby is coming” and then checked and then told me to push, it turned out he had a true knot in his umbilical cord and the cord was wrapped twice around his neck).  I know with my first pregnancy that I had a standard 25 day cycle and ovulated on day ten, with a positive pregnancy test 10 days later, so if the doctor had gone by those dates, my son would have been late under Naegele’s rule.  With #3 I ovulated around day 13, so had a more typical cycle length.  Like Like   Reply         Susan  says:     September 28, 2017 at 12:14 am      I had my first baby ten days late, and he weighed 6 -10. My second was 26 days late (!) and weighed 7 – 4. The third was a csection around her due date, and she weighed 6 – 3 and they said she looked three or four weeks early. Go figure. My first grandchild is due tomorrow (son of the son who was 26 days late), but who knows!  Like Like   Reply     Pingback: Pregnancy – Love. Laughter. Life. Medicine.         Vanessa  says:     February 9, 2018 at 10:26 pm      What a great article. I needed this ammunition in order to sound informed as my doctor wants to induce me at 41 weeks. I’m considering it since there are risks such as meconium etc. However I’d rather base it on evidence and if my fluid levels and stress tests are normal I see no reason to wait until 42 weeks. My mom had both my sister and I “late” so there is that genetic factor.  My blood pressure has been rising a bit albeit still normal, so I just have to control that by exercising daily and a good diet.  Like Liked by 1 person   Reply      Leave a Reply Cancel reply      Enter your comment here...      Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                  Email (Address never made public)     Name     Website                 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )   w     Cancel  Connecting to %s       Notify me of new comments via email.  Notify me of new posts via email.                 Advertisements           Expecting Science in Your Inbox   Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.  Join 1,208 other followers             Expecting Science is on Facebook    Expecting Science is on Facebook     Lies, Damned Lies, and Miscarriage Statistics    Your Due Date Is Wrong--So When Is Labor Most Likely?    Light Drinking During Pregnancy: 7 Things You Need to Know      Advertisements             Evidence-based info for the thinking parent   Welcome  Expecting Science is here to empower new and expecting parents with real, evidence-based information.   Hear About New Posts by Email   Join 1,208 other followers             Expecting Science is on Facebook    Expecting Science is on Facebook   Top Posts   Why is the American Academy of Pediatrics exaggerating the benefits of breastfeeding?    Critics of Cry-It-Out Fundamentally Misunderstand How Stress Affects the Brain    Don't Count on Breastfeeding to Help You Shed Your Baby Weight    The Middlemiss Study Tells Us Nothing About Sleep Training, Cry-It-Out, or Infant Stress   Topics  30s  Age  alcohol  Allergies  amniocentesis  asthma  Baby  benefits  Birth  bmi  Breastfeeding  breastmilk  breast milk  C-section  cesarean  chance of pregnancy  chances of conception  chances of miscarriage  chorionic villus sampling  cognitive ability  cry-it-out  diabetes  drinking  Due Date  duration  egg freezing  exclusive breastfeeding  fertility  First Trimester  food allergies  formula  Gender  genetic disorders  giving birth  guidelines  health  induction  infants  infant sleep  Infections  IQ  microbiome  Miscarriage  miscarriage risk  non-invasive prenatal testing  nursing  obesity  ovulation  Parity  peanut allergy  Pitocin  Pregnancy  pregnancy loss  pregnant  prenatal screening  prenatal testing  risk  sex determination  SIDS  Sleep  sleep training  solid foods  Solids  stages  stillbirth  stress  supine  supplements  trying to conceive  ultrasound  vena cava  vitamin D  weight gain  weight loss         Powered by WordPress.com .                                  Post to     Cancel                   Send to Email Address   Your Name   Your Email Address         Cancel  Post was not sent - check your email addresses!  Email check failed, please try again  Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.                  %d bloggers like this:                     Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea Why Counting Down to Your Due Date Is a Bad Idea  Try floating instead. By Jeanne Faulkner, R.N.  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email     I have two friends who are due at the end of August. Both are first timers, healthy and had fairly easy pregnancies. There's been a little nausea here and there and a few aches and pains, but other than that they've both been really fortunate to have lovely pregnancies. They're both eager to meet their daughters, but one is counting down the days to her due date like she's going on a cruise. "Twenty seven more days" she posts on her Facebook page. The date is so embedded in her mind that frankly I'm a little worried. What's going to happen when she gets close to her due date and there's no sign of labor? What if she cruises right on past it? Will she be disappointed and impatient? Will she start doubting her body? She can't cancel the trip, but she might be tempted to change her travel plans. My other friend is taking a more laid back approach. She knows she's going on a cruise pretty soon. She's packed and ready to go, but she's not sure of the actual launch date. If labor doesn't start by her due date, that's cool. A little sooner, a little later doesn't much matter. It's still going to be one heck of a big trip. I've written before that due dates are only an estimate of when your baby's going to arrive. It's not an etched in stone appointment. First time moms, if left alone to go into labor naturally tend to be pregnant for about 41 weeks and 1 day. Women who've had babies before tend to deliver around 40 weeks and 3 days. Only about 10% of women go longer than 42 weeks. That's average. Some deliver earlier and some go a little longer and it's almost always completely normal. A little frustrating, maybe, but still normal. Your due date is set at 40 weeks and many care providers emphasize that anything after 38 weeks is considered full term. Frankly I don't think that's cool. It just sets women up for disappointment. Two weeks before her due date she starts thinking "any day now." When her due date crawls past and nothing happens, it's disheartening. If she still has a week or so to go, it feels like torture. It also sets her up think she (or her doctor/midwife) needs to intervene to get things going. This is where a lot of inductions come from ; from the impression that since labor hasn't already started naturally, then it's probably never going to start unless somebody starts it with medicine. That's not terribly logical. Most of the time when women go past their due date, nothing's wrong with them or their babies. They're just not done yet. Let it be. Your body knows what to do so much better than you give it credit for. Unless there's some indication that there's a problem, just chill. It's going to happen. No one has ever been pregnant forever. I prefer the idea of a floating due date. I think it would be kinder and more accurate to tell women, "your baby will be here sometime near the end of August or beginning of September." Then, women won't think there's anything wrong with them. I've heard so many women say, "My body just wouldn't go into labor so my doctor had to induce me." Well, of course, your body will go into labor. That's what it was designed to do. Maybe it won't go into labor on one specific date, but geez, have a little patience and flexibility, will ya? I think women need a reward strategy for enduring the last days and weeks of pregnancy. It doesn't have to be anything big or expensive, but every day you go past your due date, give yourself a treat. Go to a movie, buy some new socks, make a pan of brownies, get someone to paint your toenails or give you a massage, watch a Sex and the City marathon. It doesn't really matter what the reward is, as long as it gives you something enjoyable to look forward to help take the sting out of waiting for labor. Due dates set the stage for the unpredictable nature of parenting. Labor is only the beginning. There are so many things you don't really have any control over. When those things come up, sometimes the best way of dealing with them is to just let it be. You don't always have to do anything when things aren't going exactly as expected. It's not going to be the cruise you planned on anyway. It's going to be a different trip altogether. Just sit back and wait for things to happen in their own good time. It's not about the schedule. It's not about the destination. It's about the journey. Jeanne Faulkner, R.N ., lives in Portland, Oregon with her husband and five children. More about Jeanne This Fit Pregnancy blog is intended for educational purposes only. It is not intended to replace medical advice from your physician. Before initiating any exercise program, diet or treatment provided by Fit Pregnancy, you should seek medical advice from your primary caregiver.            Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                        Join Now  Log in  Pregnancy  Baby Names  Baby  Parenting  Exercise  Nutrition  More  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram  Back  Pregnancy Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Health Pregnancy News Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Sex & More  Back  Baby Names Baby Name Finder Baby Names  Back  Baby Baby Care Health & Development Breastfeeding Baby Feeding  Back  Parenting Celebrity Parents Postnatal Health Sex, Marriage & More Real Mom Stories Fatherhood Working Moms  Back  Exercise Pregnancy Exercises Postpartum Exercises  Back  Nutrition Pregnancy Diet Postpartum Diet Recipes  Back  More Gear Sweepstakes In Latest Issue Newsletters Baby Registry    Fit Pregnancy and Baby                 Join Now!   Previous  Next   TTC    Week-by-Week    Week 1  Week 2  Week 3  Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7  Week 8  Week 9  Week 10  Week 11  Week 12  Week 13    Week 14  Week 15  Week 16  Week 17  Week 18  Week 19  Week 20  Week 21  Week 22  Week 23  Week 24  Week 25  Week 26  Week 27  Week 28    Week 29  Week 30  Week 31  Week 32  Week 33  Week 34  Week 35  Week 36  Week 37  Week 38  Week 39  Week 40    Birth      Baby    FitPregnancy.com Pregnancy Labor and Delivery When Your Due Date Passes: What Comes Next? When Your Due Date Passes: What Comes Next?  Your due date has come and gone. Here's how passing the 40-week mark can affect your pregnancy and delivery. By Nancy Gottesman  Facebook  Pinterest  Text  Email       Ask any mom whose pregnancy went into extra innings: Right around your due date, the phone calls, emails and texts start coming: "Is anything happening?" "What does the doctor say?" "Wellll????" Playing the waiting game during the last few weeks of pregnancy is hard, but it becomes especially difficult when 40 weeks turn into 41 . . . or 42. But the first thing to know is this: Your due date is just an estimate. In fact, only 5 percent of babies are born on theirs.   "No woman should feel nervous or anxious if she's still pregnant after her due date," says Alex C. Vidaeff, M.D., M.P.H., a maternal-fetal medicine researcher and practitioner at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston. "Due dates can be off by a week in either direction." Sometimes, even two weeks! Despite that fact, many women get hung up on those dates and feel distress when they come and go, Vidaeff adds.   In the first trimester, your due date is calculated by adding 40 weeks (280 days) to the first day of your last menstrual period, then synched with ultrasound images that date the age of the embryo or fetus. But the result is just an educated "guesstimate." "You might really be 39 weeks when you think you're at 40," says Vidaeff, adding that pregnancy length is, in many cases, genetically determined.   Going into overtime The strict medical definition of "post-term" (aka "post-date") is a pregnancy that goes beyond 42 weeks. However, recent research has shown that delivery after 40 weeks may come with certain risks, and OB-GYNs have responded in kind. "We now change our clinical practices at 40 weeks to prevent potential complications in both mom and baby," says Carri R. Warshak, M.D., an assistant professor in the department of maternal-fetal medicine at the University of Cincinnati.   At the 40-week mark, your doctor or midwife will become more vigilant about monitoring the baby. Post-term infants are at higher risk for problems with glucose metabolism, which can lead to excessive birth weight, and for inhaling meconium (fecal waste); this can cause breathing problems or infection at birth. Amniotic fluid levels can drop, and after 42 weeks, the placenta may not work as well as it did earlier.   Your caregiver will regularly check your amniotic fluid level, the baby's heart rate and his estimated weight, which increases significantly from 40 to 42 weeks. "If the fetus weighs more than 8 pounds, 13 ounces, you may have difficulty pushing during labor, and using a forceps or vacuum may be necessary for delivery," says Warshak.   When baby needs a nudge After 39 or 40 weeks, it's sometimes best to deliver sooner rather than later: Studies have shown that newborn admissions to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) increase slightly when a pregnancy lasts 40 to 42 weeks. And stillbirth, though still rare, becomes a concern: At 40 weeks, the risk is 2 to 3 per 1,000 babies; at 42 weeks, it's 4 to 7 per 1,000. If labor hasn't started spontaneously, you'll probably be induced at 41 weeks—at the latest. "If your cervix has started to dilate, odds are in your favor for a successful induction," Warshak says. Translation: You won't end up having a Cesarean section.     Whether or not you'll be induced depends on your own health, the status of your cervix and the baby's well-being as determined by a non-invasive procedure called fetal non-stress testing. The conditions inside your uterus after your due date may also stress the baby during labor and vaginal delivery. As a result, Warshak says, "Even if your cervix is at 8 centimeters and labor is progressing, we'll do a C-section if the baby is not tolerating labor well."   The midwife philosophy Midwives tend to wait a little longer than OB-GYNs do. "In our practice, we wait until 42 weeks for women to go into labor naturally," says Joanne Hasman, C.N.M., a certified nurse-midwife at Special Beginnings Birth and Women's Center in Arnold, Md. "If they don't by then, we schedule an induction at our hospital. We also try natural methods and refer women for acupuncture, reflexology or reiki."   At 40 to 41 weeks, if your cervix is dilated at least 2 centimeters, the midwives in Hasman's practice perform what's called a "cervical sweep," using a finger to separate the cervix from the amniotic sac. This can sometimes kick-start labor. "If the woman is really ready [to go into labor], I'll see her back here in 24 to 36 hours," Hasman says.   The C-section question  An ongoing concern has been whether induction, as opposed to what's known as expectant management (waiting for labor to start spontaneously while monitoring the mother's and baby's well-being), might lead to a higher risk for emergency Cesarean section, and studies have been conflicting. But a new Danish study of more than 230,000 women found that inducing labor from week 39 to week 41 is not connected with higher C-section rates compared with waiting for labor to begin spontaneously or inducing labor later.   Playing the waiting game  Backaches, heartburn, hemorrhoids—at 40 weeks all you want to do is hold your baby in your arms. Here are a few tips to help you cope:   â–  MAKE GOOD USE OF YOUR EXTRA TIME Sleep. Finish the nursery. Stock your larder with ready-made meals. Address birth announcements and thank-you notes.   â–  CREATE A BLOG OR VOICEMAIL MESSAGE Keep family and friends up-to-date with a daily blog entry, such as: "Just visited the doc, who said everything's fine." Record a new voicemail with an upbeat message: "No, baby's not here yet. Thankfully, we're all healthy. Keep checking this message for daily updates!"   â–  SHUN DIY LABOR STARTERS "There are no home remedies that reliably and safely initiate labor," says maternal-fetal medicine specialist Carri R. Warshak, M.D. "If there were, we'd use them in the hospital." Castor oil can make you sick and dehydrated. Spicy foods can give you heartburn. And, she says, no good studies back the claims that sex or exercise can trigger labor.             Your Account Newsletter Sweepstakes Log in Join now! Log out   FitPregnancy.com Baby Pregnancy Parenting Exercise Nutrition Gear Baby Names   FitPregnancy and Baby Magazine Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Customer Service   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Connect With Us  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices     close                                                   Accessibility links   Skip to content  Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                       News   BBC News Navigation     Sections           Home      Video      World      US & Canada      UK      Business      Tech      Science      Stories      Entertainment & Arts      Health      In Pictures      Reality Check      World News TV      Newsbeat      Special Reports      Explainers      The Reporters      Have Your Say                Magazine               Magazine              How accurate are 'due dates'?   By Keith Moore  BBC News        3 February 2015              Share this with Facebook           Share this with Twitter           Share this with Messenger           Share this with Messenger           Share this with Email      Share    Share this with  These are external links and will open in a new window      Email  Share this with Email       Facebook  Share this with Facebook       Messenger  Share this with Messenger       Messenger  Share this with Messenger       Twitter  Share this with Twitter       Pinterest  Share this with Pinterest       WhatsApp  Share this with WhatsApp       LinkedIn  Share this with LinkedIn     Copy this link   http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-31046144   Read more about sharing.  These are external links and will open in a new window   Close share panel                 Image copyright  BBC/ Penelope Chaney/ Eleanor Marshall   When Penelope Chaney met up with her friend, Eleanor Marshall, she had good news to share - she was pregnant. But Eleanor also had good news... she was pregnant too. And amazingly, both had been given the same predicted delivery date - 4 April. So what are the chances of both giving birth on the same day? In the UK, where Chaney and Marshall live, a woman's estimated date of delivery is first calculated by using the date of her last period and adding 280 days, or 40 weeks. That is followed by an ultrasound scan where another estimate is made, based on the size of the foetus. If the two "due dates" differ by a week or more, the scan is taken as the more accurate measure. It's the same in most developed countries.     But data from the Perinatal Institute, a non-profit organisation, shows that an estimated date of delivery is rarely accurate - in fact, a baby is born on its predicted due date just 4% of the time. The figure is higher when premature births and pregnancies with complications are not included, but only marginally (4.4%). While it may be helpful for parents to get an idea of when their child will arrive, the main purpose of the due date is to "define a metric for the care" of the mother during pregnancy, says Prof Jason Gardosi of the Perinatal Institute. "So, for example, to interpret early pregnancy blood tests for the risk for example of congenital anomalies, it's important to know how far gone the pregnancy is."    Image copyright  Thinkstock   The advice to the expectant mother, he says, is that the baby is likely to come any time between 37 weeks (259 days) and 42 weeks (294 days), a period referred to as "term", when the baby has reached full maturity, Gardosi says. For women like Penelope and Eleanor, whose pregnancies are straightforward and low risk, 60% of babies are born within a week either side of the estimated date of delivery. More than 90% are born two weeks either side of the predicted date. But, as noted above, only 4% (or 4.4%, ignoring pregnancies with complications etc) are born on the predicted date itself - in other words, the chance of this happening is less than one in 20.  More or Less: Behind the stats  Listen to More or Less on BBC Radio 4 and the World Service, or download the free podcast  Download the More or Less podcast  More stories from More or Less  What, then, are the chances of Penelope's and Eleanor's babies both being born on 4 April? Only 4.4% of 4.4%, or 0.2%. That's a probability of one in 500. The chance that their children will be born on the same day - any day, not necessarily 4 April - is higher. It's about one in 30. Gardosi says the statistics reveal an important message for pregnant women. The phrase "due date" is misleading. That makes it sound too accurate, he says - it should really be called an "estimated date". "Many mothers are unnecessarily anxious or impatient if there's too much reliance on the expected date of delivery," Gardosi says. "We really need to explain to them that this is just a date which helps us to determine the other milestones in pregnancy."        Image copyright  ALAMY   Estimating delivery  German obstetrician Franz Karl Naegele (1778-1851) suggested taking the first day of the expectant mother's last period, adding one year, subtracting three months, and adding seven days  This can vary by up to three days from the usual system used today - adding 280 days (or 40 weeks) to the first day of the last period  In France it is standard to add two weeks and nine months to the first day of the last period - or a total of 41 weeks - explains Carrieanne Le Bras at the French Mamma website - though this date may be revised in the light of ultrasound tests  But according to Roshni Patel, an obstetrician at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, French doctors "just manage expectations better" - while doctors in the UK or US wait up to two weeks after an estimated delivery date before inducing birth, French doctors give women an extra week to start with, then induce more quickly  Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox .    Related Topics Babies & toddlers Pregnancy Women's health    Share this story About sharing      Email      Facebook      Messenger      Messenger      Twitter      Pinterest      WhatsApp      LinkedIn         More on this story          Why Finnish babies sleep in cardboard boxes    4 June 2013              In today's Magazine                              Top Stories   Facebook chief testifies to Congress  Chief executive Mark Zuckerberg faces a grilling from senators on political ads and data privacy.  10 April 2018    Zuckerberg: 'I'm responsible and I'm sorry'  10 April 2018    Why the raid on Trump's lawyer is a big deal  10 April 2018          Features           Video      What are Trump's military and diplomatic options in Syria?              Video      Girls jump from balcony to escape blaze              'More than 600 apps had access to my iPhone data'                   Zuckerberg testifies: Seven things to look out for              Syria 'chemical attack': What we know              Why the raid on Trump's lawyer is a big deal              How photos are helping abuse victims love themselves              In the US, you don't have to kill to be a murderer              The 150-year-old story of Sri Lankan tea-making                                          Why you can trust BBC News       BBC News Navigation   Sections     Home      Video      World      World Home   Africa    Asia    Australia    Europe    Latin America    Middle East         US & Canada      US & Canada Home        UK      UK Home   England    N. Ireland    Scotland    Wales    Politics         Business      Business Home   Market Data    Global Trade    Companies    Entrepreneurship    Technology of Business    Business of Sport    Global Education    Economy         Tech      Science      Stories      Entertainment & Arts      Health      In Pictures      Reality Check      World News TV      Newsbeat      Special Reports      Explainers      The Reporters      Have Your Say          BBC News Services    On your mobile    On your connected tv    Get news alerts    Contact BBC News              Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                      