                           Home  About Genetics What is a Gene?  How Do Genes Work?  Why We are Different  Mutations and Disease  Genetic Testing  Making Medicines  New Therapies  Ethics   Ask a Geneticist Commonly Asked Questions  Categories  Submit a Question   Videos Peter Atkins  Daniel Dennett  Marc Hauser  Ian Tattersall   Online Exhibits What Color Eyes will your Children Have?  Are Genetic Tests Right For You  DNA Roulette  Do-it-Yourself Strawberry DNA  PTC Tasting  Zooming In to DNA  Seeing Color  Blushing From Alcohol  Genes In Common  Genes on Board  Are you a Super Taster?   Genetics in the News  Books  Courses  NIH-SEPA  Sponsors             The Tech Museum of Innovation             Share            Home  About Genetics  Ask a Geneticist Commonly Asked Questions  Categories  Submit a Question   Videos  Online Exhibits  Genetics in the News  Books  Courses  NIH-SEPA  Sponsors      A Handy Guide to Ancestry and Relationship DNA Tests     Click here to order our latest book, A Handy Guide to Ancestry and Relationship DNA Tests          Error message   Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 4 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 4 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 11 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 20 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).                Hair Color          Back to Hair Color           English   Español       Why is the combination of red hair and brown eyes so rare?        -A curious adult from Texas   May 18, 2007  No one knows for sure why this is. There isn't any evidence that the DNA changes that cause red hair also affect eye color. Or vice versa.  And the two aren't genetically linked like some other hair and eye colors. For example, blonde hair and blue eyes are known to be linked. Which is why blonde hair and brown eyes are so rare.  But we know this isn't the case for red hair and light colored eyes. How do we know this?  Because the DNA changes in the MC1R gene that cause red hair are on chromosome 16. And the DNA changes in the OCA2 gene that cause blue eyes are found on chromosome 15.  Genetically linked traits need to be on the same chromosome. Like blonde hair and blue eyes which are both found on chromosome 15. This is important because of how genes are passed on to our children.  We each have 23 pairs of chromosomes that contain almost all of our genes. We pass our genes down to our children in these chromosome chunks.  So if the DNA changes for blue eyes and blonde hair happen to both be on the same copy of chromosome 15, then they will tend to travel together*. Think about it like suitcases at the airport.  Imagine you have blonde hair coloring and blue contact lenses that you are taking with you on a trip. If you have two separate suitcases, then there is a chance that one might get sent to Detroit and the other to Honolulu. Your blonde hair coloring will be in one place and your contact lenses in another.  But if you only have one suitcase, everything in it will almost always travel together. Wherever your suitcase ends up, the blonde hair dye and the blue contact lenses will arrive at the same place.  Same thing with genes on the same chromosome. The DNA changes that cause blonde hair and blue eyes are usually on the same chromosome (in the same suitcase). So they usually arrive together.  But this explanation doesn't work for red hair and light eye color because the DNA changes that cause them are on different chromosomes. They are in different suitcases.  Most likely red hair and light colored eyes tend to be together because of luck. And the possible survival advantages of each and the light skin that comes with them.  Let's think back to a time before there was red hair. Imagine for some reason, the folks in Northern Europe have lighter colored eyes. This may be because their ancestors found lighter eyes more attractive ( sexual selection ). Or perhaps there is some other advantage ( click here for some possibilities).  So we have a population in Northern Europe with light colored eyes. And everywhere else there are brown eyes.  Now imagine that a DNA change happens in Africa and in Europe that causes red hair. This wouldn't be surprising -- our DNA changes all the time .  Most of the time these DNA changes don't matter. But sometimes they can cause a disease. And sometimes a DNA change can change how someone looks.  Now we have a redhead in Africa and one in Northern Europe. The redhead in Europe is very successful and does better than the folks around him. So the red hair spreads.  But the redhead in Africa has all sorts of problems. Eventually the red hair gene dies out because s/he can't compete as well as everyone else.  The end result of this is redheads with light colored eyes. Not because the genes are necessarily linked. But because the red hair happened to occur in a population with light colored eyes.  Of course we don't have any evidence for this story. But it is a plausible one because of a side effect of red hair -- light skin.  We need a certain amount of sunlight to make vitamin D. If you don't get enough vitamin D you end up with rickets , an awful disease.  The darker your skin is, the more sunlight you need. Northern Europe gets so little sunlight that lighter skinned people have a real advantage. People like redheads.  In Africa, people with light skin are at a real disadvantage. The extra sunlight exposure can cause birth defects by destroying their folic acid. And they will end up riddled with skin cancer later in life since no one has invented sunscreen yet.  So in which population do you think red hair will prosper and spread? Yup, amongst those Northern Europeans with light colored eyes.  Because of this, you just happen to end up with lots of redheads with light colored eyes. This is one idea anyway.  As more mixing between populations happens, we would predict that red hair and light colored eyes will both become less common. But another prediction, if the little story I've spun is true, is that a larger percentage of the redheads that are left may have brown eyes. We'll have to wait and see.  * This is a simplified version. Because of something called recombination, it is important that the DNA changes be on the same chromosome and close to each other. Click here for the details .     By Dr. Barry Starr      More Information    Blonde hair and blue eyes are linked Genetics of eye color Redheads will not die out           Back to Hair Color                           Search Ask a Geneticist                         Genes on the same chromosome tend to travel together.  Light skin is an advantage in sun-starved Northern Europe.                      Hair Color          Volver a la lista de Preguntas           English   Español           Volver a la lista de Preguntas                 Search Ask a Geneticist                                                   The Tech Museum of Innovation 201 South Market Street San Jose, CA 95113 +1 (408) 294-8324  The Tech Museum of Innovation 2013 © All rights reserved. The Tech Museum of Innovation is a registered 501 (c)(3). Federal ID # 94-2864660  This project was supported by the Department of Genetics, Stanford School of Medicine. Its content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of Stanford University or the Department of Genetics.         Privacy Policy  Disclaimer  Our Mission                                              Beauty  Celeb  Love  Fashion  Lifestyle  Subscribe    Follow                                             UK            Entertainment  Beauty   Makeup  Hair  Skincare  Beauty trends  Celebrity hair & makeup  Beauty lab    Love & sex   Love & sex  Relationships  Sex    Fashion   Fashion  Celebrity fashion  Fashion news  Style inspiration  Weddings  Tattoo Inspo    Work /Life   Worklife  Careers  College & Uni  Travel  Interiors  Food & Drink  Horoscopes    Body   Body  Health  Diet & nutrition  Fitness & workouts    News & Politics  NOW TV  Newsletter  Win  Subscribe  Events  Follow   Facebook  Twitter  Google+  Pinterest  Instagram  Youtube           US  UK  Spain  Netherlands  Italy  Taiwan  Japan               Type keyword(s) to search              Today's Top Stories   1   Chloë Grace Moretz hints Brooklyn Beckham cheated        2   How William & Kate will announce birth of baby        3   This woman's online shopping fail has gone viral        4   11 asos beauty products that always sell out        5   46 summer wedding guest dresses under £100           13 amazing facts about redheads that everyone needs to know  From how much sex redheads have to how they produce their own Vitamin D…              By Bridget March     Apr 5, 2017                               Getty Images             1. Red hair is a beautiful genetic mutation Both parents must be carriers of the mutated MC1R gene to be able to produce redhead offspring, of which there is a 25% chance if they don't have red hair themselves. 2. Less than 2% of the world's population have red hair That's approximately 140 million people. Scotland boasts the highest percentage of natural redheads, with 13% (40% might carry the gene there) while Ireland comes in second with 10%.  Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    3. Red hair can occur in any ethnicity It occurs more frequently (2-6%) in people of northern or western European ancestry, and less frequently in other populations. 4. Lucky redhead women have more sex That's according to a study by a German sex researcher who found that women with red hair had sex more often. A similar English study found that redhead gals had sex an average of three times a week, while our blonde and brunette counterparts have it twice a week. Shame the fellas weren't questioned, too. 5. It's a ballache to dye red hair Because it holds its pigment tighter than any other hair colour, red strands need to have their pigment stripped before being dyed by bleaching which, of course, damages the hair. Stay red!                      Getty Images     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    6. Red hair is thicker than other colours Each strand of red hair is generally thicker than other shades which compensates for the fact that redheads have less hair. Apparently they have – on average – 90,000 strands while blondes have 110,000, and brunettes have 140,000. 7. Redheads are more likely to develop skin cancer Because of their commonly fair skin and sensitivity to ultraviolet light, redheads are more likely to develop skin cancer. The International Journal of Cancer reported in 2010 that natural redheads are approximately two and a half times as likely to develop the dangerous cancer as people with other hair hues. 8. Blue eyed redheads are super rare Blue eyes and red hair forms the rarest combo on earth. Most (natural) redheads will have brown eyes, followed by hazel or green shades. 9. Redheads can change temperature quicker This is because – according to research – redheads are more sensitive to hot and cold pain. Nothing to do with their mythical fiery temperament! 10. Redheads don't go grey Red hair will never turn grey; it simply fades to white via rose gold when the time comes.                                 giphy    11. Redheads can produce their own Vitamin D As they can't sufficiently absorb Vitamin D (it's down to their lower melanin-concentration), redheads internally produce their own Vitamin D when they're exposed to low light conditions. Woah! 12. People with red hair are more likely to be left-handed Recessive traits often happen in pairs so commonly people with the gene for red hair also possess the trait for left-handedness. 13. Climate change is threatening the gene Given that red hair doesn't adapt to warm climes, the gene could - at some point - become extinct. A scientist told ScotlandNow: "I think the regressive gene is slowly dying out… Climate change could see a decline in the number of people with red hair in Scotland." Noooooo!      Advertisement - Continue Reading Below                         Share       Tweet        Pin       Email           More From  Hair         What I learned taking my hair from black to blonde          Meghan Markle's hairstyles through the years     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below        "Gem roots" is spring's newest hair trend           7 heat protection sprays that'll keep hair healthy        'Harry Potter' hair exists and I'm crying          The best detangling brushes for knotty AF hair         I've been using hair masks wrong my whole life       14 brunette hair trends that you're going to love           What every shade of blonde hair looks like IRL        8 things that could be making your hair greasy            Hair    Beauty    The brilliant blog that turns celebs into redheads    14 things you definitely didn't know about The Undateables    18 things you didn't know about Gogglebox    Sixth form student banned from lessons because of her red hair?    21 facts you never knew about 13 Reasons Why    7 need-to-know facts about A*M*E                                                            Beauty  Celeb  Love  Fashion  Lifestyle  Body  News & politics  Now TV  Newsletter  Subscribe   Cosmopolitan, Part of the Hearst UK Fashion & Beauty Network  Cosmopolitan participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.   ©2018 Hearst Magazines UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 72 Broadwick Street, London, W1F 9EP. Registered in England 112955. All rights reserved.  Cookie Policy  Terms and Conditions  Complaints  Privacy Policy  Site Map                 Share       Tweet        Pin       Email                          Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions  Search form  Search  Vitality How to Live Better, Longer   6 Must-Have Tips To Awaken Skin All Winter Long Are you ready for the cold dark days that come with Daylight Saving Time? Prepare for winter skin before turning your clock back on Sunday.   To Lose Weight, Skip Dinner A Few Days A Week New research suggests that skipping dinner helps you burn more fat in the evening and may even help with weight loss.   What Is Aspirin — And Should You Take It Daily? The main ingredient in aspirin, salicin, is the oldest pain reliever in history, but it took time and science before it became the drug we recognize today. Under the Hood Behavior, Neuroscience & Your Brain   Runner's High? You're Growing New Brain Cells Your brain creates new cell growth and repair during aerobic exercises, such as running.   Science Explains Why Songs Get Stuck In Your Head Science explains why you can't get that catchy song out of your head.   Sunshine Actually Makes You Happy In a recent study, people reported more mental distress when the days were shorter and there was less sunshine. Innovation Technology & the Business of Medicine   These 2 Genes May Predict Your Breast Cancer Survival Rate Findings from a new study could help more women to overcome breast cancer.   'Mess-Free' Period Sex Is Now A Thing A new product promises to make sex during menstruation less of a mess.   We’re Closer Than Ever To Finding Cause Of Autism Researchers discovered hundreds of genes that could be connected with autism spectrum disorder. The Hill Healthcare, Policy & Governance   Veterans Have A Problem With Donald Trump’s Comment About PTSD Veterans did not respond well to Donald Trump's comments on PTSD, a common mental health disorder many soldiers face.   Countries Should Adopt Sugar Tax, Says World Health Organization The WHO wants countries to start taxing sugary drinks, and use the revenue to fight health problems sugar may worsen.   Where Do Hillary Clinton And Donald Trump Stand On Abortion? Here's what the presidential candidates have said on the controversial topic of abortion and reproductive rights. The Grapevine Breaking News and Trends   Condom-Free Male Birth Control Shot May Soon Be A Thing A male birth control shot may be on the horizon, and may provide competition for another product being tested — the male pill.   Will Someone Survive A Gunshot Wound? New Tool Could Answer Researchers have developed a new tool that has predicted with 96 percent accuracy whether people would survive a gunshot wound to the brain.   An Easier Way To Screen For Birth Defects May Be In Our Future Wayne State University researchers have developed a test that may be able to screen for birth defects as early as five weeks into pregnancy. Weird Medicine Science is Stranger Than Fiction   Would Eating Human Brains Make You Sick? Have a craving for human brains this Halloween? We don't suggest eating them.   4 Real Medical Illnesses That Were Blamed On Witchcraft Throughout history, people have attributed scary looking and unfamiliar illnesses to dark forces, including witches and demons.   You Wouldn't Expect These 6 Things To Cause Hallucinations People are generally aware of the most common causes of hallucinations, like schizophrenia and a really high fever. But lesser known are the more rare causes; here are six you probably haven't heard about. US / World  US / World Consumer News  Consumer News Policy / Biz  Policy / Biz Science / Tech  Science / Tech Drugs  Drugs Healthy Living  Healthy Living         Vitality Why Red Hair And Blue Eyes Is So Rare, Plus 4 Other Surprising Facts About Redheads  Mar 14, 2017 07:05 PM By  Lizette Borreli   @lizcelineb  l.borreli@medicaldaily.com         Five fast facts about redheads, from bruising easily to being left-handed, that you probably didn't know.  Photo courtesy of Pexels, Public Domain    Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail We can more easily spot a redhead in a crowd than a blonde or brunette. They are few and far between; about one to two percent of the population possesses natural red locks. However, their hair isn't the only thing that sets them apart - genetic differences can affect everything from their pain threshold to how easily they bruise. In the Reactions video , "The Chemistry of Redheads," the American Chemical Society explains redheads get their hair color and pale skin due to a genetic variant that causes their cells to produce reddish pheomelanin — a type of melanin. Redheads have a particularly high abundance of pheomelanin, with very little eumelanin, which ranges from brown to black. On the surface of melanocytes is a protein known as melanocortin 1 receptor, or MC1R. When it's activated, it causes melanocytes to specifically produce eumelanin over phenomelanin, which balances out an individual's ratio. Read More: 5 Secrets Your Hair Is Trying To Tell You About Your Health Contrastingly, redheads are born with a genetic variant that causes MC1R to chemically function differently on melanocytes, which leads to less eumelanin and more pheomelanin production. These genetic variants are recessive, meaning in order to be born a redhead, either non-redhead parents are carriers (25 percent), or one parent is a redhead and the other is a carrier (50 percent); or both parents are redheads (almost 100 percent). This makes redheads rare and unique both on the outside and inside. Take a look at other facts about redheads that you probably didn't know. Red Hair And Blue Eyes Is Rare The combination of having both red hair and blue eyes is so rare because blue eye color is also a recessive trait, meaning both parents must carry the gene for a child to have it. Red hair occurs naturally in one to two percent of the human population, while just 17 percent of the world's population has blue eyes. The majority of redheads have brown, hazel, or green eyes. Require More Anesthetic Redheads may be harder to sedate than blondes or brunettes, and require more anesthesia during surgery. In a 2004 study , redhead patients required 20 to 30 percent more anesthetic than other women to reach the same level of sedation. The same experiment was also replicated with mice, which found animals with a MC1R mutation also required more sedation. Researchers suspect because the gene belongs to the family group of genes that play a role in pain, the mutation causes redheads to be more sensitive to it. The genetic mutation could affect the activity of endorphins, known as the body's natural painkillers, which may lead to an increase in pain. Sensitive To Cold And Hot Sensations Gingers are more likely to be sensitive to cold and hot sensations than people with different hair colors. Researchers at Louisville University in Kentucky found they needed extra doses of anesthetic during surgery, and were susceptible to pain at around 43 degrees Fahrenheit, unlike those with dark hair who didn't begin to flunch until the temperature got down to freezing. It's believed MC1R may cause the temperature-detecting gene to become over-activated, making redheads more cold. More Likely To Bruise Redheads are also more likely to bruise. They have normal blood counts and coagulate blood like others, yet a 2006 study found they bruise more easily. Researchers suspect people who always bruise excessively may assume this is normal, because they've experienced it often. However, people who bruise only rarely may become concerned about a single bruise linked with minor trauma. There are some normal, healthy people who consider their bleeding and bruising to be excessive . Read More: 4 Ways Medical Conditions Can Change Your Hairstyle More Likely to To Be Left-Handed There is limited scientific research regarding being a redhead and a "lefty," but it seems to be common. Similar to having red hair, left-handedness is a recessive trait , with an estimated 10 to 12 percent of people being lefties . Recessive traits tend to come in pairs, which suggests why a lot of redheads are also left-handed. See Also: 7 Causes Of Male Hair Loss And How To Treat It A Man's Height May Predict Chances Of Premature Hair Loss  Comment  Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail                     Most Read                Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions   About Contact Advertising Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Subscribe  © 2018 Newsweek Media Group All rights reserved. Medical Daily is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendation. Read more .                                   Skip to main content     Sign in  Register    Go to: Guardian Unlimited home UK news World news Comment is free blog Sport blog Arts & entertainment blog Podcasts In pictures Video ---------------------- Archive search Arts and entertainment Books Business EducationGuardian.co.uk Environment Film Football Jobs Katine appeal Life and style MediaGuardian.co.uk Money Music The Observer Politics Science Shopping SocietyGuardian.co.uk Sport Talk Technology Travel Been there ---------------------- Audio Email services Special reports The Guardian The northerner The wrap ---------------------- Advertising guide Compare finance products Crossword Feedback Garden centre GNM press office Graduate Guardian Bookshop GuardianEcostore GuardianFilms Headline service Help / contacts Information Living our values Newsroom Notes & Queries Reader Offers Soulmates dating Style guide Syndication services Travel offers TV listings Weather Web guides Working for us ---------------------- Guardian Abroad Guardian Weekly Money Observer Public Learn Guardian back issues Observer back issues Guardian Professional             News    Sport    Comment    Culture    Business    Money    Life & style    Travel    Environment    TV    Video    Data    Mobile    Offers    Jobs        News    Guardian           Home     Recent queries     Send a query     Crossword     Lucky dip     Any answers?     About Notes and Queries     Sudoku                    Categories       Nooks and crannies        Yesteryear        Semantic enigmas        The body beautiful        Red tape, white lies        Speculative science        This sceptred isle        Root of all evil        Ethical conundrums        This sporting life        Stage and screen        Birds and the bees          THE BODY BEAUTIFUL I have a question about hair color. I have light brown hair and my husband has red hair. I want to know what the probability of having a child with red. Is it likely?  Ashley, Saratoga Springs United States   Very likely !
Red hair carries a far more dominant chromosome than brown hair. rebecca, bradford uk    This depends if you have a red hair gene stored in your DNA. We each have a pair of genes for any trait like hair color, one from each parent.
The one that takes precedent is the dominant gene. Red hair is a recessive gene, so your husband has two red hair genes. The only way for your child to have red hair is if you have a recessive red gene (being covered by the dominant brown hair gene) and that is the gene that gets passed onto the baby. Kayla Iacovino, Tempe, United States    To add to Kayla Iacovino's answer. If you don't have the recessive Red gene none of your offspring will have red hair but all of them will carry the red gene from their dad so red-headed grandchildren are on the cards. If you do have the recessive red gene then 1 in 4 of your children will be redheads. G. Baker, South Ockendon, UK    If it's lucky! Vivienne, London, UK    Actually the red hair gene is recessive to blonde and brown etc. You have two alleles, one from your mom and one from your dad. In your husbands case he has "Red"/"Red" and you could have "Brown"/"Brown", "Brown"/"Blonde", of "Brown"/"Red". If it is the first couple then your children CANNOT have red hair, impossible. However if you happen to have a recessive red hair gene perhaps from one of your parents who might have had it as well then there is a high chance. You give either a Brown or Red gene and your husband gives a Red or Red gene so I'd say a 50% in that case.
But probably 0% but as mentioned, watch out for grandchildren ;) two people who don't have red hair but carry the gene can have children who have red hair. Darren Bridgewater, Hartlepool England    Years and years ago, before my husband and I were married, or even going out together, he said to me jokingly one day, "We could never get married, because our kids would be redheads!" (I have darkish red hair, he had very dark reddish hair). As it turned out, we did get married and our three kids all do have red hair... all are, of course, gorgeous! No, really! In Ireland, there isn't the same awful "ginger" stigma that there is in England. Nurn, Galway    I have blonde/brown hair, and my husband has red hair. My first son has brown eyes and brown hair with a few surprsing RED hairs all over his head. Interesting huh?
I want to see grandchildren with red hair. Melanie, North Babylon USA    To correct a few errors above. If you are not carrying the red hair gene all your children will have a red hair gene from their father and a non-red one from you and so probably be non-red. Current knowledge suggests it is not a zero chance; there is at least one other, different but rare, gene that can give red hair, and there are red haired individuals who appear to have only a red/non-red genetic makeup.
On the other hand if you are a red hair carrier, so you have one red and one non-red gene, then each child will have essentially a 50% chance of having two red-hair genes. But this doesn't necessarily mean that the child will have red hair. The "red hair" gene actually comes in several version, some of which are incompletely expressed so they may only give red hair say 10% of the time. The reason for this is not known but probably involves interactions with other genes.
So what are the chances of carrying a red hair gene? Analysis of UK or UK origin populations finds that almost half the population are carriers of one or another red hair form of the gene, so you have a high chance of being a carrier.
I should also say that current data suggests that the gene or genes responsible for blonde versus non-blonde are different from the red non-red gene. Ian Jackson, Edinburgh UK    Why risk it? Alex, Derby, England    What do you mean 'why risk it'     Well first of all I wish I lived in Ireland! If they don't have the stigma of being a horrid "ginger" then I'm going!
I have dark red hair from parents with brown hair (and freckles). My brother has brown hair. I have 2 grandparents on each side who had red hair - hence it hiding in my parents, until they met and produced one brown haired baby and one (me) red head.
My boyfriend has also got red hair (but very pale) but his parents are both non-red heads. He doesn't know about his grandparents.
Will we have children with red hair 100%? It is everybody else's main concern! Melanie, London, UK    well...its look like you are talking about my case..:), my mother has light brown hair and my dad has red hair..i got the red hair as the first child but my youngest brother and sister has light brown hair. Reem, Jordan    This post is probably closed by now, I replied to it a long time ago.
I remember when I was a kid in the USA (long time ago), people (ok, women) used to stop me and ooh and aah after my hair colour and told me I was so lucky to have hair that colour.
They do the same now to my daughters now , in Ireland, where every well-to-do woman is now very blonde with an orangey tan; but not to my son, although his hair is more blondey-red.
Guess what, though? Hair colour doesn't guarantee you a happy life! Who'd have thought? Nurn, Galway Ireland    I have mousy brown hair and my boyfriend has ginger hair containing a mix of brown as well
We have two kids together, our first one has brown hair but when he is in the sun you can see the ginger colour on top and our second child also a boy has black hair but also same with him has the ginger colour on top when he's in the sun
But you cant ask for it, it just happens with the hair colour, you can say i want a ginger haired kid, you just have to wait and see really. jodie, united kingdom    My husband had blonde hair, I have darkish brown, and I had 4 children - one blonde one brown and two redheads, whoops did I get a ribbing!! mary durant, worthing west sussex    Genes are strange things...
I have ginger hair and light brown eyes and my sister has dark brown hair and light brown eyes also (our mum has black hair and brown eyes / dad has light brown hair and grey eyes. All grandparents were dark brown or black haired). My partner has dark brown hair and blue eyes (his mum has dark brown hair with brown eyes / his dad is dark brown hair and blue eyes).
Our daughter has blonde hair (no ginger tones at all) and green eyes.
My sister has 5 kids. Their father is half Chinese with black hair. All her kids have light brown hair but all have ginger tones/ highlights especially when they have been in the sun.
Like I said, genes are strange things :) Kay, London Uk   Add your answer                          Privacy policy | Terms & conditions | Advertising guide | A-Z index | Inside guardian.co.uk | About this site Join our dating site today guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media Limited 2011                      Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search  Social Media         Header Ad Get Beauty Box    How to be a Redhead  Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search    Confident Lifestyle // April 13, 2015 Stay in the Know - Subscribe to our Newsletter The Big Question: Will You Have a Redhead Baby? By: Rosemary O. Fernandez Around this time last year, I got the best news of my life: My husband and I were expecting a baby! We kept it to ourselves for a while, but soon told our family and friends. As I inevitably expanded, I was asked the inevitable question: Will the little one have red hair too? This was a perfectly reasonable question as I was born with screaming red hair –the kind of shade that has prompted numerous strangers to tell me I have the map of Ireland written on my face despite the fact that I’m mostly Italian. I inherited these locks from my (Italian) mother, and my husband’s mother and grandfather are also gingers. Needless to say, the odds were in the little guy’s favor. Thirty-eight weeks slugged by, and I’d estimate that I heard the question about three times a week. Coworkers joked about it. Family members hoped for it. Random people at the grocery store thought it would be terrific. Naturally all my husband and I prayed for was a healthy child. Whether he popped out with red, blonde, brown, or green hair, we’d cuddle and dote on him just the same. But I’d be lying if I said I never crossed my fingers and daydreamed about strolling down the street with a fiery-headed toddler in tow. Here are some facts to see if  you will have a redhead baby: 1. In order for a baby to have red hair, both parents have to carry the gene, since it’s a recessive trait. So if you’re a ginger and you marry a ginger, odds are, your kids will be gingers, too. If only one parent has the locks but the other is a carrier, the baby’s chances are 50/50. If neither of you are red but you both are carriers, you have a one in four chance of a fiery-haired child. And, sorry to say, if only one parent is not a carrier (even though the other is), you’ve got no shot. [ Source ] 2. Even though you might not be a redhead yourself, studies estimate that 25 percent of Caucasian Americans carry the ginger gene, so if you fall into this category you might end up with a redheaded baby when you’re least expecting it. [ Source ] READ: 10 Things To Know If You’re a Redhead Baby My reasons weren’t purely aesthetic, because for me, my hair color is a huge part of my personality. I’m confident. I’m intelligent. I’m friendly. I’m funny (though my husband says it’s usually when I don’t mean to be). Growing up, my hair helped me cultivate these qualities. I’m used to strangers addressing me simply because they want to pay me a compliment about my hair; therefore I have no problem doing the same to someone else when I like their outfit or a speech they presented. On the first day of school when teachers called my name, they also told me they liked my hair; hence I became comfortable in a classroom from an early age, absorbed more information, and was never too timid to raise my hand when I knew the answer. I’m often the only redheaded in my group of friends, so I developed a good sense of direction; since I’m the most easily spotted in a crowd, my pals often followed me when we were out. Here are some other fun facts about redheads in general: Enjoy those baby blues while they last. The world’s rarest hair and eye color combo is red hair and blue eyes. [ Source ]  number 4 on list ] Redheads are more likely to be left-handed. [ Source ] Redheaded babies are the cutest babies. Ok, this one’s just my opinion. READ: Facts About Redheads That May Surprise You I want all this and more for my child. More than I want to dress him in t-shirts that have fun redheaded slogans, I want him to be confident. I want him to know he’s smart. I want him to not be afraid to be kind. Though hair color doesn’t determine these qualities, I know from experience that it helps. Sixteen weeks after birth, what’s the verdict? The jury’s still out. The baby was born with dark hair. Those strands have now mostly fallen out, and it looks like some red is replacing it. Only time will tell. But I still have my fingers crossed. Rock it like a Redhead! Photo Credit: Joanna McVey Tweet Share Pin    Author:  H2BAR Team Tweet Share Pin Related Articles Related Posts  6 Things That Happen to You When You’re a Redheaded Mom of Redheaded Babies  Her Story: The Experience of Being a Redhead  6 Ways Redheads Can Halt Postpartum Hair Loss  10 Pros and Cons of the “How to be a Redhead” Book MailChimp Signup Get Red-Mail Turn Your Mailbox Red... The hottest trends, tips, videos & more  Email Address *  Sidebar Ad Instagram Header Follow Us On Instagram  @howtobearedhead // Use #howtobearedhead Instagram             What & Why How to be a Redhead® is empowering every redhead to feel confident, to look amazing and to rock their beauty. Red hair is more than a color, it’s a lifestyle! meet co-founders adrienne & stephanie Try the beauty box Essential Guide   Newsletter Link Don't Miss Out - Join Our Newsletter Social Media         Footer Menu About Redhead Friendly Approved Contact Privacy Policy Events Press Copyright © How To Be A Redhead                        Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search  Social Media         Header Ad Get Beauty Box    How to be a Redhead  Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search    Confidence // August 13, 2014 Stay in the Know - Subscribe to our Newsletter Facts About Redheads That May Surprise You 1. Red hair and blue eyes is the rarest combination in the world. Photo Credit: Angelica Photography 2. Redheads soak up more sun. It is because they usually have less melanin producing capacity in their skin and thus are more sun sensitive than are their dark haired counterparts, who usually have darker skin, more melanin, and therefore more sun protection capacity. Read more here . 3. As reported by The Independent , the redhead gene could be on its way out because the gene is thought to be a response to cloudy weather in Scotland ; something the country could see less and less of due to global warming. Read more here . 4. The Irish Central reported about a new US study at Penn State University. “They found out that Europeans’ light skin stems from a gene mutation from a single person who lived 10,000 years ago. Read more here . Photo Credit 5. A redhead’s light skin is incredibly sensitive and can burn easily when in contact with lime juice. “I want to let people know about this type of burn because it is especially severe for people with fair skin, like redheads.” Read Shelby Anderson’s story here . 6. Redheads may feel more pain at the dentist. Read more here . 7. It has been proven that redheads need larger doses of anesthesia and are often resistant to local pain blockers like novocaine. Read more here . 8. Natural redheads could be at greater risk of melanoma without sun exposure. Read more here . 9. It is useful to know that if the red hair gene is in your family history, then even if you do not have red hair yourself, you do carry the gene. Read more here.  Photo Credit 10. Redheads bruise more! Read more here . 11. Rocks those shades! A majority of redheads have light colored eyes, which has less pigment. This causes sensitivity to the sun’s harmful rays more than brown or black eyes. It’s very important that all redheads wear sunglasses to keep their eyes safe. Read more here . Rock it like a Redhead! Tweet Share Pin    Author:  H2BAR Team Tweet Share Pin Related Articles Related Posts  10 Things You Might Not Know About Wigs For Kids  13 Astounding Facts About Redheads  News Flash: Not All Redheads Are Irish  10 Redhead Romance Films For Valentine’s Day MailChimp Signup Get Red-Mail Turn Your Mailbox Red... The hottest trends, tips, videos & more  Email Address *  Sidebar Ad Instagram Header Follow Us On Instagram  @howtobearedhead // Use #howtobearedhead Instagram             What & Why How to be a Redhead® is empowering every redhead to feel confident, to look amazing and to rock their beauty. Red hair is more than a color, it’s a lifestyle! meet co-founders adrienne & stephanie Try the beauty box Essential Guide   Newsletter Link Don't Miss Out - Join Our Newsletter Social Media         Footer Menu About Redhead Friendly Approved Contact Privacy Policy Events Press Copyright © How To Be A Redhead                              Keesler Welch  Your awesome Tagline       About the author  New England newbie. International Development professional at MIT. Blogging about: traveling, international affairs, South Asia, recipes, water & sanitation, economic development. View Keesler Welch's profile   Ask me anything  Submit a post        Search      Blog Tools   Archive  RSS         40 notes  February 7, 2010  Facts and Myths about Red Hair    —-Red hair is a genetic mutation. —-The first human redheads walked this earth about 50,000 years ago in Africa and then spread throughout Northern Europe. —-Redheaded women are genetically better at coping with pain. —- Professor Jonathan Rees conducted a study of redheads at Edinburgh University. He identified the “gene for red hair” the melanocortin 1 receptor. Professor Rees found that this single gene, carried by up to 40% of Scots, was responsible for red hair. —-Scientists say some Neanderthals (extinct hominids) could have had fair skin and red hair.  Light skin would have been an evolutionary advantage for Neanderthals by allowing them to soak up more vitamin D from the sun in cloudy Europe. —- From 1483 to 1784, thousands of were suspected of witchcraft. Women accused of witchcraft were searched for ‘Witch marks’; any abnormality - moles, freckles, warts and especially red hair. Approximately 45,000 women were tortured and murdered by burning at the stake or drowning. —-Redheads don’t turn grey. Red hair turns sandy, then white.  They are also found to loose their color later in life than people carrying other hair colors. —-In Denmark, it’s an honor to have a redheaded child. In Corsica, if you pass one on the street you spit and turn around. In Poland, it’s said if you pass three redheads, you’ll win the state lottery.   In Greek Mythology, redheads turn into Vampires when they die. —-In cases of severe malnutrition, normally dark human hair may turn red or blond. The condition, known as kwashiorkor, is a sign of critical starvation caused by protein deficiency, and is common during periods of famine. —-The genetics of red hair is now being uncovered, together with connections between red hair and melanoma and other skin disorders, and red hair and problems with anesthesia.  A 2002 study found that redheads are harder to sedate than any other people requiring twenty percent more anesthesia. Inadequate doses cause people to wake up during surgery and have increased recall of procedures. —-Adults have about 120,000 hairs on their head; redheads have fewer, blondes have more, brunettes have the most. —-The country name of Russia means “land of reds” in honor of a redheaded Viking by the name of Rurik. —-Red hair is seen on the heads of only four percent of people. Most of these exist in the U.K., the Republic of Ireland, and Australia. The highest percentage of natural redheads in the world is in Scotland (13%), followed closely by Ireland with 10%. In the US, about 2% of the population are natural redheads. —-Red hair and brown eyes are uncommon because there is a low chance that the gene for brown eyes will recombine onto a chromosome with the gene for red hair, and in order for someone to have red hair and brown eyes, they would have to have two copies of the gene for red hair and at least one copy of a gene for brown hair. —-Redheads have always been thought untrustworthy. As a 17th-century Frenchman observed, “Judas, it is said, was red-haired.”  —-Superstitions: 1) red hair is unlucky; 2) it’s lucky to rub your hand on a redhead’s head; 3) bees sting redheads more readily. —-The Egyptians regarded the color as so unlucky that they had a ceremony in which they burned redheaded maidens alive to wipe out the tint. —-The Romans kept red haired slaves, and at a higher price. —-Adolph Hitler reportedly banned the marriages of two redheads, as he feared their children would be “deviant offspring”. —-At some point in history Brahmins were forbidden to marry redheads. —-“Ill beat you like a redheaded stepchild”. This phrase was born out of the American south and implies the status of illegitimate offspring with a white master. —-Rees (2004) suggested that the vividness and rarity of red hair may lead to its becoming desirable in a partner and therefore it could become more common through sexual selection.     picfxr reblogged this from keeslerwelch and added: (via blggst) picfxr liked this sorry-i-cant-be-honest liked this alach1983 reblogged this from keeslerwelch  etherealdilemma reblogged this from keeslerwelch  etherealdilemma liked this musicallymaniacal reblogged this from keeslerwelch  updowntoandfro reblogged this from keeslerwelch  we-shall-be-petrichor liked this blissismyth reblogged this from keeslerwelch  blissismyth liked this vol-au-ventbaudelaire liked this maboya661 liked this red-rotes reblogged this from keeslerwelch  red-rotes liked this ruriiroame reblogged this from keeslerwelch and added: (via blggst) thehorsewasasurprise reblogged this from keeslerwelch  thehorsewasasurprise liked this supremecupcake reblogged this from keeslerwelch  supremecupcake liked this apathetic-robot-queen reblogged this from keeslerwelch  themoonishiding liked this blindboysdontlie reblogged this from keeslerwelch  blindboysdontlie liked this ciarastuart-df reblogged this from dirtycolorblind  dirtycolorblind reblogged this from blggst  keeslerwelch reblogged this from blggst  blggst posted this     We love Tumblr  &  Stationery by Thijs                            MORE Sign In Join    89    Owlcation » STEM » Genetics & Evolution     Redheads: The Genetics of Hair Color Updated on October 15, 2017   Leah Lefler   more Contact Author   Genetics of Red Hair What do Napoleon Bonaparte, Oliver Cromwell, and Thomas Jefferson have in common? Besides the obvious similarity as heads-of-state, all three had red hair.  Hair color ranges from platinum blond to ebony, due to levels of pigments produced by specialized cells called melanocytes. Those with dark hair have cells that produce a pigment called eumelanin, and those with blond or red hair have cells that produce pheomelanin. The relative ratio of eumelanin to pheomelanin determines a person’s hair color. A complete absence of both pigments leads to white hair color.  The gene responsible for determining hair color is called the Melanocortin 1 Receptor, or MC1R. If the MC1R gene is active, it produces eumelanin and a person will have darker skin and hair. If the MC1R gene does not function (i.e. it is blocked or inactivated), the melanocytes will produce pheomelanin instead of eumelanin. A person with a malfunctioning MC1R gene will have blond or red hair, due to the lack of eumelanin, along with freckles. MC1R gene mutations are seen in all ethnicities.   My husband and son carry MC1R polymorphisms, and display the red hair phenotype. | Source       MC1R Gene Location The MC1R gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 16. Its official location is 16q24.3, and is 3,098 base pairs in length. Depending on the specific mutation (known as a polymorphism in the language of genetics), hair color will range from strawberry blond to auburn. The MC1R gene encodes a protein made up of 317 amino acids. Over 35 sites on the gene have been identified with polymorphisms, and only a small number of these mutations cause red hair shades.   Red Hair Mutations and Hair Color   Allele   Phenotype   R151C   red hair, increased melanoma risk   R160W   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   D294H   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   R142H   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   D84E   red hair, increased melanoma risk   V60L   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk   V92M   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk   R163Q   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk      How likely am I to Have a Child with Red Hair? Red hair is recessive, which means a person may have brown hair, and carry the “red gene” without expressing the hair color. A person must have two copies of the recessive gene to express the trait. The chances of having a child with red hair depend on the genes of the parents. For simplicity’s sake, the various polymorphisms in the MC1R gene will be called the “red hair gene.” The red hair gene will be labeled as a lowercase r in the charts below and brown hair will be labeled with an upper case R.   Case 1: Parents with Brown Hair In the first scenario, two parents have brown hair and do not carry any polymorphisms on the MC1R gene. In other words, neither of the parents is a carrier for the red hair gene. None of their children will have red hair, unless a new mutation arises spontaneously. These parents have almost no chance of having a child with red hair, unless a de novo mutation were to arise.         Case 2: Brown-Haired Carriers In the second scenario, both parents have brown hair, but carry a red-hair causing gene. These parents are both called “carriers” of the gene. In this case, the parents will have a 25% chance of having a child with brown hair who does not carry the red gene. They have a 50% chance of having a child with brown hair who carries the red gene. There is a 25% chance that the parents will have a child with red hair.     Case 3: Parents with Brown and Red Hair A third possibility involves a parent with red hair and a parent with brown hair. The parent with brown hair in this case is not a carrier of the red gene. Each of the children will have one allele for the red hair gene, and will be carriers of the gene. None of the children, however, will display the physical trait of having red hair.         Case 4: Parents with Brown Hair (Carrier) and Red Hair In a fourth scenario, one parent has red hair and the other has brown hair, but is a carrier of the red gene. There is a 50% chance that the children will have red hair, and a 50% chance that the children will be brown-haired carriers of the red gene.  This is the scenario in my own family: I have brown hair and probably do not carry red-causing MC1R polymorphisms. My husband, however, has the classic red hair phenotype. One of my sons is blond, and the other has strawberry blond hair.     Case 5: Parents with Red Hair The last case includes two parents with red hair: in this situation, all of the children would have the same phenotype as the parents. The children will all have red hair, since neither parent has the dominant "brown hair" MC1R genotype. In some cases, different polymorphisms (alleles) may be inherited from each parent. This scenario is common in locations where red hair is a common occurrence: primarily in Scotland and Ireland.         Genetic Mutation MC1R: Beyond Hair Color The MC1R gene is expressed in many cells, and is responsible for more than hair color. MC1R plays a role in inflammatory response, pain sensitivity, and the immune system. The far reaching effects of the MC1R gene are listed below:  Cancer risk  Redheads have an increased risk for melanoma, as the melanocytes in people with red hair do not produce the protective eumelanin pigment. Unfortunately, the risk of cancer is increased even when there is no exposure to sunlight , so those with red hair should have regular check-ups with a dermatologist to monitor any skin changes. It is important to note that people who have dark skin and MC1R mutations are also at risk for skin cancer.  Increased pain sensation  People who have red hair are more sensitive to pain caused by burns and freezing than people with brown hair. Studies performed by Edwin B. Liem at the National Institutes of Health demonstrated an increased sensation of pain caused by thermal changes, and an increased need for anesthetic. Redheads required 19% more anesthetic than their brown haired counterparts. Interestingly, those with red hair demonstrate a reduced sensitivity to stinging pain (the type of pain encountered when receiving an injection). The MC1R gene affects the binding of endorphins, which are the body’s natural painkillers.   Melanoma Risk in Europe A map showing the density of light-eyed people in Western Europe. Melanoma risk increases for those who produce less eumelanin. | Source   Famous Redheads Emily Dickinson, the American poet  Antonio Vivaldi, the Italian composer  Mark Twain, the American author  Malcolm X, civil rights activist  Cleopatra, Egyptian ruler  Vladimir Lenin, Russian revolutionary    Red Hair Stereotypes and Beliefs The most common modern stereotype about redheads is that red hair comes with a fiery, feisty personality. Earlier in history, redheads faced more dangerous beliefs about their red hair. In ancient Egypt, redheads were burned alive as a sacrifice to the god Osiris. Their ashes were blown over agricultural fields by winnowing fans and used as fertilizer for the season’s crops. Early Egyptians regarded red hair as an unlucky trait.  In the middle ages, those with red hair could be labeled as witches or vampires. The Malleus Maleficarum (a report on witches in the Middle Ages) states, “Those whose hair is red, of a certain peculiar shade, are unmistakably vampires.”       Other Causes of Red Hair Some people do not come by their red hair via the MC1R gene. One type of albinism (type 3, or rufous albinism) demonstrates a phenotype of red hair and ruddy skin. This form of albinism is most common in New Guinea and Africa.  Severe malnutrition can lead to a condition known as kwashiorkor – the deprivation of protein and calories from an individual’s diet will lead to failure to thrive, edema, excessive hair growth, and depigmentation, along with the development of red hair. The Biblical story of Esau is fascinating in this regard, because the Bible describes Esau as covered in red hair. As the story goes, Esau sold his birthright as the first-born son to his younger twin, in exchange for a bowl of soup. While the story is intended to demonstrate the hazards of placing material desires over a spiritual blessing, one has to wonder if Esau was simply suffering from the effects of kwashiorkor.  Proopiomelanocortin deficiency (POMC) is a genetic disease resulting in obesity, adrenal insufficiency, and red hair . Children with this genetic disorder exhibit early onset severe obesity and striking red hair, due to the effects the POMC gene has on ACTH production and the influence this gene has on the phaeomelanin:eumelanin ratio in cells.   Redhead Nicknames There are various nicknames used around the world for those who have red hair. Sometimes the nicknames are affectionate, but many of the nicknames are used as insults.  Ranga: An Australian nickname for people with red hair. The word is a shortened version of the word orangutan.  Ginger: A name used for redheads, most commonly used in the U.K. The cartoon series South Park satirized the persecution of redheads with a genocidal campaign against "ginger people."  Carrot Top: A nickname often used in the United States, comparing red hair to the color of carrots.  Koakage: The Japanese word for redheads - the word "akage" indicates the red hair and the prefix "ko" for something small or cute.    The Myth of Redhead Extinction News reports reported on the imminent extinction of redheads in August 2007 . Like many other myths circulating on the internet, the reports were incorrect. Based on the incorrect assumption that recessive genes will "die out" over time, the news reports stated that the gene for red hair would be gone by the year 2060. The reports supposedly came from the Oxford Hair Foundation, but no such scientific entity exists. The Oxford Hair Foundation manufactures beauty products and is not an academic facility. The claim that redheads are going extinct is completely false: recessive genes may become rare, but will not disappear from the human genome. Red hair will exist well beyond the year 2060!   Natural Hair Color Poll What color is your hair?  Black  Brown  Blond  Red, Strawberry Blond, or Auburn See results   Questions & Answers Question: When I was younger, I had dark brown hair, but very red highlights. The red was most noticeable when the sun is at a lower angle in the sky. My eyebrows are black. My mustache was auburn with deep red highlights. I had a few stray deep red hairs in my beard, but mostly it was black and dark brown with red highlights. My body hair is entirely dark brown with golden red hghlights. Is this pattern a form of being a redhead? Does it suggest the genetic mutation for red hair? Answer: Mutations in the MC1R gene... Question: My mother and father have black hair and I am redhead. What hair color would my child have? Answer: Your child would likely... Question: I have strawberry blonde hair.  Are the genetic characteristics of a redhead and a strawberry blonde the same? Answer: The same gene is responsible... Question: I have blonde hair and my husband has black hair. We have two boys who have deep auburn hair. Is this rare for both of our boys to get this hair trait? Answer: It is likely that you and... Question: Everyone in my family is a redhead except for me. I don't tan, and I blister and burn in the sun. I color my hair red because it looks good. People have never seen me as a brunette, and think I am a natural redhead or blonde. Do I get dark hair from my grandmother, who is also dark-headed like me? Answer: There are several genes that... show more Question: As a child, I had auburn hair. As I got older, my hair went brown with red highlights. Now, my hair looks red in the sun. However, my roots have been dark brown since puberty. The hair on my entire body is medium brown with red highlights. My dad had auburn hair, and my son has black hair with red highlights with some red hair mixed in. Several other family members have auburn hair as well. Am I a redhead or not? Answer: It is very likely you have...                     Related History Redheads: Myths, Legends, and Famous Red Hair by Christoph Reilly 529  Chemistry The Science Behind Permanent Hair Coloring by Leah Kennedy-Jangraw 2  Genetics & Evolution The Y Chromosome: Ancestry, Genetics, and the Making of a Man by Leah Lefler 28        Popular Genetics & Evolution Rarest Eye Color in Humans by Edmund Custers 518  Genetics & Evolution Blood of the Irish:  What DNA Tells Us About the Ancestry of People in Ireland by Marie McKeown 201  Genetics & Evolution 6 Rare and Unique Eye Colors by Tatiana 113        Comments Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account. 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites. sending LoneTimberWolf 10 days ago  Thank you Leah. Most are not as kind.  Author Leah Lefler 11 days ago  from Western New York I would love to travel to Alaska one day, Lone Timberwolf. We also live in a low-sun location during the winter (Western NY), but our summers are sunny and typically are in the mid 80's. I have to stay on top of the sunscreen for my children, as their skin is very prone to sunburn. Your hair is beautiful!  Author Leah Lefler 11 days ago  from Western New York Hair color for people with blonde or red hair often darkens with age, as certain genes are switched off and on throughout childhood and puberty. Eumelanin production typically increases with age.  LoneTimberWolf 11 days ago  Aye, livin' in Alaska was a low sun environment during th' winter. but what most don't seem to realize is that it gets into the 90's during th' summer. And thank ye my friends also think My hair and eye combination is quite pretty as well. My profile picture is actually a picture of me, not something I  found on the internet.  shreyash11 11 days ago  will my hair colour get darker as... age by age ??  Author Leah Lefler 12 days ago  from Western New York Shreyash, you could always have your hair dyed to a darker color if you would like to do so.  shreyash11 13 days ago  I am redhead..my hair colour is getting partially dark brown...then What should i do for to make my hair colour darkest brown ..??  Author Leah Lefler 2 weeks ago  from Western New York Shreyash11, it is impossible to say with certainty, but your baby will most likely demonstrate the phenotype of dark hair if you marry someone with dark hair. The child may or may not have the mutations responsible for red hair, but it is likely to be masked by the darker hair. Genetics is tricky to predict (due to crossing-over during meiosis and other intricacies), so you never really know until the child is born.  Author Leah Lefler 2 weeks ago  from Western New York Your parents likely each carry MC1R genetic mutations, Madison - I bet your hair is beautiful! I have brown hair, my husband had very red hair (it is now much darker and appears brown) and my son has strawberry blonde hair that is getting darker with age.  Madison 2 weeks ago  I have red hair and my parents have black and brown hair  shreyash11 2 weeks ago  I am redhead boy...but my parants have typically black hair & if i marry with black hair colourd girl then which hair colour will my baby have ???      Author Leah Lefler 5 weeks ago  from Western New York What a cool combination of rare eye and hair color, Lone Timberwolf! Living in Alaska would definitely be a low-sun environment. We live in Western NY and do not get very much sun, and my pale, red (now brown) haired child does well in the low-sun environment.  LoneTimberWolf 5 weeks ago  I have bright red hair, as does my da, aunt, grandma, and great grandma. We all have the MC1R mutation, and my mother is a carrier, but she had blonde hair and brown eyes. I somehow got amber eyes, though my mom and sisters eyes are brown, and my da's are green. I can tan, with much effort and many sunburn, but I am most comfortable in cold climates with little sun, such as when I lives in alaska. So I got one of the rarest eye colors in the world, and the rarest hair color as well. ^-^  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Laura, I wanted to add the OTC 23 and Me test only tests for three variants on the MC1R gene. Well over 30 variants are known to cause the red-hair phenotype, so it is quite possible you have a variant not tested by the kit.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Hello, Laura - 23 and Me is an over the counter test. If you can buy it online, it is over-the-counter. To have full sequencing of the MC1R gene, you would need a prescription and the oversight of a geneticist. 23 and Me (along with other OTC genetics kits) only look for the most common allele or mutation in most genes.  Laura 2 months ago  Thanks for the reply Leah. It wasnt an over the counter test, i used the 23 and me testing which covers all of them in detail.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Hi Laura - there are over 30 different alleles for MC1R, and it is likely that any over the counter genetic testing product only tests for the most common variants. The most likely explanation is that you do have a variant in the MC1R gene that wasn't detected by the test, as most OTC evaluations are produced to find the most common alleles. Another explanation would be that you carry another gene (other than MC1R) that is affecting hair color, though nearly all people with red hair carry a mutation in the MC1R gene. Other genes are suspected of playing a role in hair and skin pigmentation, however, so genetics is a bit more complicated than a Punnett square might suggest.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York It is quite possible you either carry or have the gene, philessense. The only way to tell for sure would be genetic testing.  philessense 2 months ago  Mother and 3 sibs are redheads. Father, dark brown w/ blue eyes, fair skin never tanned. Eldest brother and I brown hair with red in it if I try to go blonde. My redheaded sibs consider me dark, as I am able, with much effort, to build a bit of a tan and they can't. But I'm quite pale, burn and blister more easily than normal people. And when I am at my darkest, people tell me I am too pale. I have always assumed I had the red hair gene.  Laura 2 months ago  Hi. I’ve just had genetic testing done and i do not carry the red hair gene. I have dark brown hair. However my partner has red hair and so do both of my children. I thought both parents had to have the gene?      Author Leah Lefler 3 months ago  from Western New York It is so interesting to see the variations in expression with the red-hair gene, Leslie! My children are similar (my husband is a red-head and my oldest is dark blond and my youngest is strawberry blond).  Leslie Yee 3 months ago  My husband is a red head rr (2 recessive red), I am brunette Bb (1 dominant brown, 1 recessive blonde). We have 2 brunette daughters, and one dark blonde daughter. All daughters have one recessive red hair gene.  Catherine Dye 3 months ago  What are the possible hair color types for a child born to one red haired parent and one brunette parent who carries a recessive blonde hair gene? Would it be 50% brunette with a recessive red and 50% strawberry blonde? or would the other 50% just turn out red? What happens when two different colored recessive genes pair up?  Author Leah Lefler 4 months ago  from Western New York I wouldn't be scared, Bree, but I would be careful with regard to tanning and excessive sun exposure. My boys are very fair and we use sunscreen with them whenever they are outside for extended periods (my 11 year old had a scare with a dysplastic mole that showed up on his back at the age of 9 and recurred, so he had to have a wide excision to remove all chance that it could come back). Everyone is different and the only real worry with having both copies of MC1R would be repeated exposure to the sun, increasing the risk of skin cancer. I'm sure you'll be fine as long as you don't sunbathe on a regular basis!  Bree 4 months ago  Im kinda scared after reading that redheads and blonde haired people are likely carriers of cancerous genes. Im the only red head in my blood related family and also the only girl who was born into my family, making me "special" so I hope there is nothing else different. Also, does anyone with medical knowledge know the percentage of red/blonde haired people that have came down with cancer is? Also, does anyone know what age it usually comes by if it is a Dominant gene?  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York The MC1R genetic mutation is carried by all races, tlew. It is also likely Cleopatra used henna as a beauty agent.  tlew 5 months ago  how was malcom x a redhead? or cleopatra?  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York It is highly likely you carry the MC1R gene, RTaylor, though only genetic testing would be definitive. My husband has similar traits and we have one child with strawberry hair (which has darkened) and one child with blond hair. Your parents may or may not have red hair, as each one would only need to be a carrier to pass on the red trait, so you could have two parents who don't display the trait. My son and I both have issues with anesthesia, though we also have Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (known for a difficulty with anesthesia), so it is hard to determine whether it is the EDS or the red hair gene causing the issues for us!  RTaylor 5 months ago  Fascinating!!  I'm curious and would like some feedback if anyone cares to assume the challenge? I'm adopted,  thus I have zero genetic history that I can share.  However, after reading all the posts, I feel somewhat confident in proclaiming that I am a "True Red" based on the following: 1) red-headed since birth, (various degrees of darkness, but always red) 2) green eyes and sensitive to sunlight 3) heavy freckling but not necessarily "pale-skinned" More "ruddy" looking. I do burn easily and my freckles seem to double if I forget sunscreen. Also have had 3 lesions removed...not melanoma,  but did have some type of cancerous cells. 4) Dx'd with SLE (systemic Lupus) at age 40. It's an auto-immune disorder that causes an increased inflammatory response. 5) This one is the worst by far...on 2 seperate occasions, I woke up during surgery!! I didn't feel pain, but I remember opening my eyes through some kind of guppy lubricant they apply apparently, and thinking...Oh s#!:#!  That's all I remember thank God...the anesthesiologist later explained to me that it was because of my "red-hair gene!" 6) For some weird reason, my body wont dissolve those "dissolvable stitches." Nobody seems to know why? I'm now wondering if this an isolated occurance, or could it be related to the gene? Ok....here's my question?  Is it reasonable to assume that I'm a carrier of the MC1R gene? Husband- brown hair, light green eyes, tans easily. Both my children have dark brown hair with heavy red tints in sunlight. Both light BLUE -eyed, scattered freckles to upper body only. Both O-neg blood type...same as me. Neither have shown evidence of problems with anesthesia thus far. 2nd question (sorry!) Any ideas on what my bio-parents had in terms of hair/eye color?? Thanks for any insight you might be willing to share. It's nice to know I'm not the only one with questions!! Best to you all....  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York My son is similar, Yadira - he was born with black hair, which fell out and he had red hair until it darkened to brown. We are much farther north than Florida - but his eyes are blue/gray.  Yadira 5 months ago  Oh, I am a mess. I was born with black hair, then it turned lighter almost blond then copperish red, then red(er) and finally dark brown. I got out in the sun and I turn red, earn freckles and go back to be white again. I never get a tan (Sighs) My eyes they can change from blue to gree all in one day or stay green for many years and change into different shades of green. If I travel a bit far up north in the state of Florida where I am and the weather is cold my eyes turn blue.  Author Leah Lefler 6 months ago  from Western New York Hi Jim, is the "red spot" a patch of red hair, or is it a red spot on the skin? Red spots on the skin (macules, papules, and hemangiomas) are not indicative of carrying the recessive red hair gene. If you have a patch of red hair, then you may carry/express the recessive MC1R gene.  Jim 6 months ago  If I have a red spot on the back of my head do I carry recessive red?  Author Leah Lefler 6 months ago  from Western New York The red hair gene exists in many ethnicities, so it is not linked to "green eyes," though there are people who carry both traits at the same time. There is likely a founder effect as many of these traits (Rh negative blood type, green eyes, and red hair) are found at a higher rate in Europe and occur simultaneously in many individuals.  susan sanger 6 months ago  Interesting.  Have you cross-matched red hair, eye color, skin color? So far, the conclusions are very different:  Red hair, green eyes, extreme sensitivity to hot- cold., and RH Negative blood type?  grandma clara  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York It is interesting, Matthew. We actually had a fertile mule in the Inland Empire of California where I spent my childhood. She had two foals - they named one of the foals "Blue Moon" due to the rarity of a fertile mule!  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  ( http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fnews360.c... ) I made a an ignorant claim that, Hybrid Species are "genetic dead ends", this is an article from Wire reprinted from Quanta Magazine, that illustrates the benefit of diversity, and that being a pseudo-scientist is being wrong a lot! lol.  ( Im not sure if linking is allowed, article was found in a aggregator )  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York I agree, Matthew, that people seem to have become polarized in recent times and we must reach out to our fellow humans to stop hate and to develop relationships that prevent the formation of stereotypes. Never stop learning - this should be the human motto.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  While trying to find evidence to my argument, i ran across "Christian Forums" really getting disgusting and it just highlighted how stupid today's world is because we as a society are okay with being fed information rather then winning that information for our own good. Ignorance is the bane of Civilization, once we are complacent enough to believe what sounds good we are ignorant enough to vote out our republic.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  (Bio: I'm a US Army Infantryman, all outsides look the same when they are on the outside, and if we can eliminate hate,fear, and ignorance, then what is there left to fight over, If I can never see Death again due  to misunderstandings I will die happy)Thank you, Preconceived Notions. that was what I was trying to say. Long story short My buddy was telling me he was attracted to Red's, even though he "was" and "we are" supposed to be "disgusted by them," thats when I forgot myself and yelled "conjecture!!!, that's not science nor is it fact, It!! is based on hate stereotypes", and Preconceived notions.  In an attempt to try to correct, in what I believe a intellectual teachable moment and a literal chance to "kill" hate and ignorance, because he rebutted my argument in I believe her because she is in the medical field, even though she has not specialized nor is she a Phd. I'm like awesome, I can prove to you! or.. reference to the fact that is not common knowledge nor is it scientific. Not to mention He could talk to a Herpetologist about his hemorrhoids, but unless He has a cloaca his advice should be taken with understanding that Dr. Herp DVM. is not an expert in that field or discipline and neither is the "Expert".  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York Matthew, I would first ask the question: is your initial supposition correct? Who finds red-heads unattractive?  Apart from a satirical South Park episode, I haven't heard about hate groups regarding people with red hair, though I suppose there are people who will always find someone to hate. As with all physical characteristics, there are stereotypes applied - which are often inaccurate or serve to validate a preconceived notion. Prejudice is learned and not a genetic trait.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  I'm, looking for information about how the "fear of gingers" propagates anecdotal conjecture. The argument: my friend said according to his Niece who purportedly works at John Hopkins for Kids, "We are genetically designed to find red-heads unattractive." My rebuttal: CONJECTURE, more specific Religious Allegory, most recently Vikings dominating Christians from the Dark Ages up until the Late Middle Ages, even surviving the renaissance as the Varangian Guard of the Byzantine Empire. We were taught to Hate and Fear Red  headed pagans, and those fears survive today as stereotypes. I have tried arguing that Hate is a subjective sociological skill, one learns to conform to to be accepted and not be cast out of the "Common People" with the "Common Idea". I tried to bring up Bears, and highlight the difference between biological response to environment and sociological response to society's common idea.  Bears evolved white fur to better hunt on the Ice, those who lived long enough to pass that mutation now propagates the mutation as a dominant, and now the likelihoods of creating white furred hunters are more likely, and a probability. Where does Social come into play? Wolves adopt dogs, Cats adopt Birds. but because they cannot reproduce, in my mind it doesn't apply; Polar Bear and Grizzly Bear are probably close enough to get a mutant like Liger or a Walfin, or a mule, but that line stops as mutants are usually born sterile. Since all Humans possess the MC1R Gene and it can be expressed by any human, and if we are programmed to hate Ginger's, then why don't we hate ourselves for being carriers? Anyone? I'm open minded so critique that crap out of me.  Author Leah Lefler 8 months ago  from Western New York There are a lot of variants, Mickie! Many people with the "red" gene don't display the phenotype if they also have dark hair, but may easily have children with lighter hair where the redness shows through. My husband was a true red-head, but became darker as an adult. He still has a red beard! My oldest boy was blond as a baby, but my youngest son had strawberry blond hair. Both boys are older now and have the same hair color (a dark blond/light brown). In the sunlight, there is still a red hint to my younger son's hair.  Author Leah Lefler 8 months ago  from Western New York My uncle has red hair and has maintained a shade of red well into his 80's! It has lightened considerably, but is definitely still red.  val smith 8 months ago  I am almost 81 years old and have never had to add dye to my hair, but over time the shade does change somewhat and I think this may be because health issues  Mickie Chaplin Boldt 9 months ago  As you stated, there are always anomolies.  My dad had very dark brown hair and light green eyes, almost black and my mom had a beautiful auburn color with brown eyes.  I am the oldest of three -- I have Strawberry Blonde and green eyes, my two bothers were medium brown hair and brown eyes. Not sure of my Dad's side way back, but the immediate family all had shades of brown hair and some with brown eyes and others blue or green.  My mom's side however, had lots of red hair.  My husband's hair is dark brown/black and brown eyes.  My son had Strawberry Blonde when little, but it turned darker, and darker brown as he got older, but he has a reddish brown beard!  Justin Hall 9 months ago  This is bizarre. I have the following alleles with regard to my MC1R gene R160W, D294H, V92M, D84E, V60L and yet I have brown hair. I had blond hair as a child and by the time I was in my mid teens it had darkened to the medium light to medium brown it is today. All I have ever found was an occasional red hair in my beard and even they were few and far in between.  Hernan 10 months ago  Red hair, as any recessive mutation can be diluted (if they reproduce at slower speed than the other hair color populations) but not extinct unless there is a pressure to supress this mutation by selection (Suppression of these people from reproduction). Maybe the % of gingers can be reduced but not eliminated.  kayeff 11 months ago  Did you just make up the "koakage" because I can't find evidence of it's truth anywhere. Akage = redhead and kawaii = cute. Where did you get the koakage idea?  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York Blond hair may contain pheomelanin, Keep It Red - it does not have to contain this form of melanin, but it certainly can have it.  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York It is very interesting to me how the beard color will remain red, even when the hair on someone's head has darkened, sbbhunt! My husband still has a very red beard, even though the hair on his head has turned a reddish brown color.  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York My younger son had red hair as a toddler and it is now darker and nearly the same color as his older brother's hair (a very dark blond/light brown). It is interesting how hair color changes over time, Robert! My family ancestry is largely Irish and my husband's is British/German - my husband had very red hair.  roberttracy70@yahoo.com 13 months ago  My fathers hair was white  eyes blue when he was young , changing to nut brown later. we 3 childern all had very fair hair , changing later to brown . My mothers hair was black , green eyes .   My sons hair was ginger changed to frizy black  and  angel blue eyes  , my daughters hair is black deed green eyes  changing to dark brown  , her mother is half Welch and English  black hair deep green eyes . My parents  were Irish . one grand son half Greek has very dark hair and blue eyes , the other has light brown hair and blue eyes and an Irish mother with dark red hair and green eyes .  Funny thing red haired women facinated me when I was young and I wasent surprised when my son said he was going to marry one , even though I said nothing about my younger days .  Sbbhunt 14 months ago  Why did you not mention black and red, my father had blue black hair, so does my oldest brother, one of my brother has brown hair, 3 of us original blond, the men with red beard. My mother had red hair, my daughter was born red hair but turn into very blond  jhert 15 months ago  I have a question hopefully someone can help me answer... My mom has red hair (not auburn) and my dad has brown hair. I have blonde hair and my brother has red hair (slightly more blonde than my moms). How is this possible? I understand how my brother would have gotten his red hair if my dad is carrying a mc1r gene but how would I have blonde hair then? Could my dad be carrying a brown hair, blonde hair and mc1r gene?  keep it red 17 months ago  Okay.  I've been reading and I'm not so sure what I typed a week ago is correct because now I'm finding publications that are saying that pheomelanin IS responsible for blonde hair as well.  Some say yes, some say no.  I would like to know the truth so I'll keep reading.  My apologies to you and again, thanks for the article.  keep it red 17 months ago  Enjoyed this article with the exception of one glaring mistake.  Blonde hair does not cotain pheomelanin, only a bit of eumelanin.  As you stated above, the abscence of any pigment results in white hair, so a little eumelanin makes blonde hair.  It is this bit of eumelanin that gives it it's yellowish or blonde hue.  Blonde hair actually derives from brown hair, not red hair.  So eumelanin is responsible for black, brown, and blonde hair.  Pheomelanin is responsible for all red hair only.  Other than that, great article.  I enjoyed it.  Author Leah Lefler 2 years ago  from Western New York Isn't it interesting, Dolores? One of my children is blond and the other has red hair, and my red-head is very resistant to local anesthetics.  Author Leah Lefler 2 years ago  from Western New York The resistance to anesthetics is a very interesting side effect to the MC1R gene, mbwalz! My boys also have Ehlers Danlos syndrome, which causes resistance to local anesthetics. They have a double whammy, and our trips to the dentist are usually rather difficult (as you can imagine)!  Dolores Monet 2 years ago  from East Coast, United States As the mother of two red headed children, I used to think they were just whiners when they complained of pain. Now I know that they actually are more sensitive! I feel like a hardhearted mama! There seems to be a problem with electricity as well. I never knew two people who complained of electrical shocks like the two of them. Of course, they were such gorgeous kids. There is nothing more adorable than a red-headed child!  MaryBeth Walz 2 years ago  from Maine Thanks for the in depth info about us redheads! I just wrote a hub about our pain and the things that are being discovered through the mutation of the MC1R gene. It could lead, if there's enough interest and funding, in new classes of analgesics. In the mean time, we just get to ask for more lidacaine instead! Voted up and shared!  Author Leah Lefler 4 years ago  from Western New York Perhaps people are jealous of your red hair, Jill?  Jill 4 years ago  People are jealous  of me  I don't know why I'm almost 60  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York That is a good response! I love red hair and I'm glad one of my kids has it (though it is much less obvious now)!  Crystal Tatum 5 years ago  from Georgia Perhaps the best answer, as her parents finally taught my cousin to respond when asked where she got that red hair, is "God gave it to me"!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York The genetics is interesting to me, Crystal Tatum - it is very possible to carry the red gene and have dark hair - when a child gets two copies of the genetic mutation, they will have red or orange hair. The actual genetics are a bit more complicated than that, of course - there are many different mutations and some are have more penetrance  (i.e. "stronger") than others. I have brown hair (blond as a child) and my husband has red hair - we have one son who has blond/brown hair and one son who has reddish hair.. though the red has become less obvious as he has gotten older and his hair has darkened!  Crystal Tatum 5 years ago  from Georgia The genetics bit was very well written but over my head. I do know that I have a cousin with a brown haired father and black haired mother who came out with orange hair. Apparently there was red hair on both sides of the family back a coulpe of genrations. She's never liked it much ....people were always coming up to her in stores and rubbing her hair! It's hard to believe how barbaric ancient civilizations could be. You did a great job with this hub. Voting up and interesting.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I love genetics, pinkhawk - many genes have an effect beyond the obvious phenotype of having red hair. The increased skin cancer risk is simply the direct effect of the type of melanin the "red" genes express. Eumelanin protects against the sun's radiation; pheomelanin does not protect the skin.  pinkhawk 5 years ago  from Pearl of the Orient such an interesting topic! ^_^...thanks for sharing!...there's a reason for everything, wondering about its other function...  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York My five year old had very strawberry blond hair as a toddler, Tiffany, and now he is developing darker hair. I suspect he has a "weak" red hair gene or he is only a carrier of the gene. Still, his skin is extremely fair and we go through bucket loads of sunscreen each summer! My husband is a classic red head, and is very susceptible to skin damage from the sun.  tiffany delite 5 years ago  from united states thank you for this very interesting hub. my bestie has red hair and freckles and is so sensitive to the sun just like you said in this article! my hair was lighter when i was younger, and it has gotten darker as i have gotten older...that must mean my genes are slow starters...yes? lol. blessings!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Redheads are a big part of my life, too - my husband is a redhead and my younger son was strawberry blond. His hair gets darker in the winter, but gets redder in the summer with exposure to the sun. As a toddler and preschooler, he had very reddish hair. My older son was blond as a baby and has brown hair now. You definitely have a life filled with redheads, PaisleeGal!  Pat Materna 5 years ago  from Memphis, Tennessee, USA Well this is a fascinating read. Redheads have always played a part in my life. While my hair is mousy brown I've always loved redhair.  My first love when I was 8 was redheaded. Then when I was 14 my first huge crush was a redhead. I finally married a redhead (not the same guy). My matron of honor at my wedding was redheaded. I was hoping one of my sons would be redheaded like their dad but they ended up like me with brown hair. Two yrs ago I thot my grandson was going to have redhair (his mom was a strawberry blond as a child) but alas so far his hair is not red but is a honey color and when in the sun you can see streaks of reddish.  So redheads have always been a big part of my life  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York It is fascinating, isn't it, Deborah? Since it is recessive, it really does take two carriers to have a child with red hair. My son has strawberry blond hair that has now darkened (but returns to its reddish hue during the summer months). He has the freckles to match, so we go through a lot of sunscreen!  Deborah Neyens 5 years ago  from Iowa Interesting! I'm a red head but never knew the genetics behind it. I'm told my red-headed, Irish great grandmother was bummed that none of her children or grandchildren were red heads, but after she passed, several of us came along in my generation and the next generation.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Current science disputes the theory - DNA has been sequenced from Neanderthal remains and the genetic sequencing shows an entirely different mutation in the MC1R gene than his found in humans - so the likelihood of a "genetic flow" from Neanderthals to homo sapiens is very low.  Tamara Wilhite 5 years ago  from Fort Worth, Texas What do you think of the theory that due to the age of the red haired gene, that it came from Neandertals?  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I worry about the skin cancer risk, too, Kelly. We recently went to the beach and we used a lot of sunscreen on our boys to keep them from getting sunburned. I suppose forewarning is foreknowledge, and all we can do is use sunscreen and monitor for any skin changes!  Kelly Pittman 5 years ago  from Walker, LA My son is a red head - Or he likes to say it's orange. (He's 7 now)   My husband and I both have dark brown hair and our daughter has light brown hair as I did as a child.  Both sets of my husband and I's grandmothers were red heads so we assume we carried on something, though when someone asked our son, "Where do you get that red hair from?"  He replies, "It grows outta my head."  I do worry about the cancer risk as my grandmother died from a rare case of melanoma.   Nice work on this hub.  Very informative. Voted Up and Interesting.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York My mom had auburn hair, but my sister and I didn't pick up the red shade. I was tickled when Nolan's hair turned a beautiful strawberry blond (from my husband's side). The hair in our family tends to get darker with age, though, so it hides the red! Thanks for the comment, teaches!  Dianna Mendez 5 years ago  My mother had red hair but none her children received this blessing. I had tints of red in my hair,but this was the closest anyone came to red hair. I have to say my mother had the most beautiful color of red, it was a darker shade and thick.  Thanks for posting, I like your matrix on the dominant colors.  Voted up.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Hyphenbird, it is interesting how hair color changes with age. Sometimes the pigment producing cells produce more eumelanin as a person ages, but the gene for red hair is, of course, still there. The red color is just harder to see because it is masked by the darker hair. There are many variants of the MC1R gene that cause varying shades of red, and some are "weak" red genes that don't give the classic "carrot top" color. My husband's hair has darkened considerably, but he still has the freckles and his beard hair is very red!  Brenda Barnes 5 years ago  from America-Broken But Still Beautiful You did a great job and a lot of research on this Hub. My dad was a redhead and so was I as a child. Alas, my hair turned dark as I aged. By the time I was fifteen, it was dark brown. My mom had coal black hair so it was natural to be confused. lol I really was fascinated by your research and commend you.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I did simplify the idea, of course - there are many polymorphisms of the MC1R gene that cause red hair, so one parent could easily carry one variant while another parent carries a different allele. And then there is complete vs. partial penetrance, etc. Still, it gives a general idea of how two brown haired parents might end up with a little redhead! Thanks for your comment, DFiduccia  DFiduccia 5 years ago  from Las Vegas Leahlefler, I haven’t seen a Punnett square since I retired from teaching. It brings back memories of Mendel and dominant/ submissive traits. You really got into this hub—great presentation. Voted up—DF  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Vanderleelie, there were many myths about redheads that fueled hatred and misunderstanding. Some in the Middle Ages believed that children with red hair were conceived while the mother was going through a menstrual cycle. In earlier times, it was believed to be a sign of witchcraft or an unlucky "mark." I am certainly glad my family lives in modern times!  Vanderleelie 5 years ago  This is interesting information.  The fact that redheads are more sensitive to pain is perhaps one reason why they were considered "different" in other time periods. Voted up!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York The MC1R gene is here to stay - the same rumors circulated about blond hair going extinct. My younger son's hair is getting darker and the red isn't as obvious in the winter. In the summer, though, he has the most wonderful red hair.  Kimberly Schimmel 5 years ago  from North Carolina, USA I'm so glad red hair is not going extinct.  Hubby and I have red-haired great-aunts and I have a redheaded sister and neice.  Only one of our 6 kids is a redhead, but I'm hoping they all carry the gene on to future generations.       About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others. Sign In Join STEM Genetics & Evolution Zoology Math Chemistry Electrical Engineering Medical Science Marine Biology Computer Science Entomology Geology Botany Microbiology Climatology & Meteorology Mycology Astronomy Ecology Physics Paleontology Show All Categories Connect with us About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.  working                           --    HOME   Fashion & Lifestyle  Health & Beauty  Entertainment  DIY  NEWS                                            Fashion & Lifestyle  Health & Beauty  Entertainment  DIY  NEWS              Best Perfumes For Men That Can Drive Women Wild                         Tips About Haircuts, Face Makeup & Fitness Goals                         Secret Makeup Tips For Hooded Eyes                         Interesting Facts About World’s Different Countries                         25 Wedding Dresses And Cakes Ideas Of 2018                           Shocking Strange & Psychological Facts About Dreams & Sleep                         Benefits Of Citrus Limetta – Infographic                         The Adverse Effects Of SecondHand Smoke – Infographic                         Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                         How To Cure Strep Throat ? (12 Simple Home Remedies)                           Harry Potter Fun Facts & Behind The Scenes Secrets                         Fun Facts About Christmas, Easter & Valentines Day                         List Of Random, Interesting & Useless Facts                         Classy & Hot Tattoos For Women                         Mark Calway vs. Dead Man – Infographic                           Tips About Haircuts, Face Makeup & Fitness Goals                         Simple Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Under Eye Bags                         How To Cure Strep Throat ? (12 Simple Home Remedies)                         Cute Prom Makeup, Updos & Hairstyles Ideas                         Awesome Cute Nail Designs Ideas                           Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                         BUTTERFLY OF STANFORD, 23.                         Gerald Rogers Divorce                         Famous Celebrities With Autism                                        Shocking Facts About Redheads      Posted By John David,            Updated On April 3, 2018                                “Redheads” is a term used for the people who are born with natural red hair. In British English, the term “Ginger” is used to describe red-headed people. It is the rarest hair color in the world.Here Is The List Of 30 Shocking Facts About Redheads You Never Knew of !  Facts About Redheads:   30  Combination of Red Hair and Brown Eyes    Image via thehunt.com  All redheads do not have blue eyes. Blue and red combination is rather rare, a common combination with red hair are brown eyes.       29  Redheads Are Mutants    Image via royalchatter.com  Redheads are more often mutants. The recessive MC1R gene that is in charge of the red hair, MC1R, is a genetic mutation. Genetic variations in MC1R gene are common in people with red hair.   28  Rare One    Image via gerovanna.co  Redheads are incredibly rare. Just 2% of the world’s population has red hair which comes to around 140 million. There are more redheads in Western Europe than anywhere else in the world which is 13%. So we can say that they are majestic unicorns.       27  Redheads Are Royals    Image via gerovanna.co  Elizabeth I of England & Queen Victoria were redheaded. Nowadays, Prince Harry is also a natural redhead.   26  Rate of Graying Hair is Slow    Image via huffingtonpost.co.uk  Red hair does not turn to gray as fast as other hair colors; so, you don’t have to get worry about going gray. Because this is the reason they are lucky to.       25  Redheads Are Left-handed    Image via bustle.com  According to research, it is proved that Redheads are mostly left-handed than any other hair color.         Shocking Facts About Redheads 4.8 (95%) 1052 votes         1  2  3  4  5           John David  John David  Show More            SUBSCRIBE TO OUR TOP MAILING LIST         Email Address     Website url                   GOING VIRAL                          Best Rock Bands Of All Time                                 Hilarious & Funny Memes That Will Make You ROFL                                 Exotic Low Maintenance Cool Pets That Are Legal To Own                                 How To Stop Loving Someone Who Does Not Love You…                                 A 2 Z Types of Friends In Our Life –…                                 38 Facts About Universe That Will Boggle Your Mind                                    Join the Conversation Cancel Reply     Will not be published.  Website  Anti-Spam Quiz: What is banana color, yellow or red?         41 comments            gemma louise  2 years ago  Reply    I am a natural redhead too, I love this article and I am always open to learn new things about redheads. My name is Gemma Louise Roberts.               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Hi Gemma, nice to meet you. thanks for stopping by and giving the introduction.                 Courtney Mings  2 years ago  Reply    I am a redhead with bright sky blue eyes and I am very proud of it. My name is Courtney mings 😃               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Hey courtney,  thanks, would you like to share your social profile ?                 Lorelle  1 year ago  Reply    Hello, as far as redheads being more hot-headed, I definitely agree that it’s because we are teased so much as kids and eventually we just bite whoever pokes fingers at us. Kids can be very mean to kids who stand out. Both my son and daughter were born with red hair, Keegan has blue eyes and Tanya has got dark brown. Mine is also blue and although I’m almost 51, I have practically no grey hair yet. Lucky for us!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Thanks Lorelle, I appreciate your input.               Cade  1 year ago  Reply    Heck yeah red hair don’t care , and yeah I do have red hair and dark blue with a little bit of green in my eyes and my hair is really dark red I love seeing other “Gingers” it makes my day.                 Aris  1 year ago  Reply    I am a redhead with grey eyes! Only 1% have my genetic make-up!               Alison  1 year ago  Reply    Same with me!!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Thank you. Do you mind sharing your social profile ?               Jake  12 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead with deep blue eyes and a apparently deathly stare.                 Cody douglas McMahon  1 year ago  Reply    This is great. I was wondering about the pain thing and anesthetics i knew it!! Thanks guys  red head and always been proud of it!!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Yes they do!                 Erin  1 year ago  Reply    I have a son with red hair and brown eyes. I could not ask for a more thoughtful, caring young man. He is very unique in that he likes what he likes and doesn’t care what anyone says about it. He’d give the shirt off his back to anyone. Once Cory is your friend he’s your friend for life! I wouldn’t trade him for anything!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Nice to know about Cory 🙂                 Jake  12 months ago  Reply    Redhead nation!!! Natural redhead here! I have a older brother and sister and both of them have red hair also. Trio!!!               Robyn  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a red head with green eyes. My hair is red with a natural blonde highlight. My eyes are in between emerald green and solid dark green. I also have freckles under my eyes.               Kristy36  10 months ago  Reply    I am a natural redhead with bluegreen eyes I am left handed a twin and waa born to a beautiful blond with blue eyes and a jandsome brunette guy with very dark blue eyes Im proud that they created me and my mom passed away two years ago and I miss her dearly she was an ash blond but she was gorgeous I get my beautful eyes from her!!               Austin  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a natural redhead and both of my parents have brown hair, I guess they both carried the gene for red hair. I get bullied at school for my hair color. Idc it doesn’t bother me               Isabella  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a redhead <3               Kaylee sohn  9 months ago  Reply    I have red hair and blue eyes               Wesley  8 months ago  Reply    My name is Wes Long and I have red hair and central heterochromia this my eyes are blue,gray and yellow/gold so I am a pretty rare mutant altogether.               Isaac Beam  7 months ago  Reply    I’m a natural ginger with blue eyes. Reading this made me feel special. I loved it!               Carr  7 months ago  Reply    This isn’t true,here a scientist gives a very detailed genetic explanation on a science page for young people,to the question a young woman asked,Why Is Red Hair And Brown Eyes so Uncommon.  madsci.org/posts/archives/2001-06/993598918.Ge.r.html               wordsiseek  7 months ago  Reply    Yes, red hair with brown eyes combination is uncommon but when we compare it with red hair & blue eyes combination, it is more common.                 Terry Kraft  7 months ago  Reply    Ginger with blue eyes. Hated it growing up. I think male gingers get a bad rap for being odd looking, but I’ve grown into a unique looking ginger that turns heads wherever I go. Proud now.               Rafaela  6 months ago  Reply    ❤❤❤❤               Tayla  6 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead. I have blue eyes that change to green sometimes. Im.. Uhm well lets just say I’m weird xD               Liam  6 months ago  Reply    I’m a red head and I can say we are spawns of Satan. One day we shall all come and devour your soul.               Paisley  5 months ago  Reply    Wow, I heard redheads were rarer, being one myself, but I had no idea that my blue eyes were also thrown in the category of rare.               Sandra Freed  4 months ago  Reply    You actually have the same chance as any other person, but since red hair and blue eyes are both rare, chances to be born with both are low, I’m red hair and hazel BTW.                 Ella Pazare  4 months ago  Reply    Ohh I have red hair and green eyes❤💚               Sandra Freed  4 months ago  Reply    I have red hair, and this article has both right and wrong information (at least the wrong things are not true for me).  The real reason Blue is rare with redheads is because it is a rare color in general, and when combined with the rarity of red hair, it is one of the least common combinations.  Even if the second “fact” is true, don’t just call us mutants, we get offended.  The one about redheads being left handed is FALSE, your strong hand is the hand you learned to use most, I’m right handed, and in fact lost my left hand.  I am more sensitive to the cold than my sister, who is blonde.  This might not be true for all reds, but I do consider myself to be a hot-head.  About being easy to find, it all depends on the size of the crowd and ratio of redheads to others.  AND WHO THE HECK THOUGHT WE WERE VAMPIRES?!               The Ginger Philes  3 months ago  Reply    These are all true. Especially the last one.               Presley  3 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead with frosty blue eyes and i could never not be happy               Kj  3 months ago  Reply    I’m right handed is that rare               April  2 months ago  Reply    Redheads have more allergies than any other hair color.               Alec Hengstman  2 months ago  Reply    Hi, i have red hair and brown eyes. For people who cant stand it if someone calls you ginger, i have a tip: make a contest about who had the most original joke about redheads. It is just very funny what you here sometimes. There is this bully who is on the top of the list without knowing it. Its just funny, try it out. Also, am i the only one who sweats and gets a red face although i am not embarresed at all? Btw, good facts               Robert Rudd  2 months ago  Reply    Hey there, I am a redhead with green eyes and I feel shut out of the world due to my gingerness and always have. It’s nice to see that people like me care and respect being unique. I mean really why is it that when I date a red haired girl everyone assumes she is my sister, it’s wrong and I want to stop this bias behavior the world has toward us. Thank you.               Abi McCartney  1 month ago  Reply    Wow, what a great article. I have long ginger hair, freckles, blue eyes and I’m left handed. I have very sensitive skin and teeth! My sense of humour and the amount that I laugh is often commented on. I love being around people and embrace the light hearted ridicule that I receive on a daily basis for being so different. I’m not hot headed, more laid back if anything. However I’m very passionate, loving and caring. I was very fourtunate not to be picked on at school, I guess I was a cool kid and got on with everyone (I’m 30 by the way). I wouldn’t suggest I am proud to be a red head, just grateful to be loved for being me.               Malachai Smith  4 weeks ago  Reply    I’m a redheaded teen guy and I am not just a red-head ginger. I am on the full-on-fire-headed level and I have often been made fun of for it. To find that I am not the only one and that we can actually be appreciated is a huge blessing. Too often, I have been mocked and insulted in my hallways at school. So, to know that they are being stupid is awesome. My heart and my soul are so happy to find this community of red-heads.              24 Sensitivity to Hot and Cold   According to some studies, a side effect for redheads is that they are more sensitive to hot and cold pain than any other hair color.  23 Ginger King and Queen in Netherlands   Each September, the Netherlands holds a two-day celebration out of appreciation for redheads around the world which is called Roodharigendag in Dutch. The party includes crowning the ginger King and Queen.  22 Types of Redheads   There is a variety of red hair than you think. Red hair comes in so many different colors (Burnt Orange, Copper, Blonde, Ginger), sizes (Short and long) and shapes as other hair colors.  21 Behavior with Redheads in Past   They have been treated awfully in the past. Hitler was against the intermarriage of redheads believing that they produce more devil children.  20 Bee's attraction Towards Redheads   According to some studies bees are more attracted to redheads than any other hair color, probably it’s because they seem like sweet red flowers because of their red crown of hair.  19 Redheads are Hot-headed   Redheads are also known as hot-headed. However, there is no confirmation of this being valid. It might be just because of their red hair color they are called hot headed in a sense of joke.  18 Disney Princesses with Redhead   We also have redhead Disney Princesses like Merida and Ariel. It means that red hair color is too cool because, Ariel and Merida also want to be a part of the ginger world, but you cannot have them because they are too beautiful for this earth.  17 Easy to Found   Redheads never get lost in the crowd because of their red crown of hair which makes them unique from others which are cool.  16 Hardest Shade to Dye   According to a study, it is proved that Red is the hardest shade to dye your hair and also difficult to maintain it. So to be a redhead is a benefit.  15 Sense of Humor   Redheads have an impressive sense of humor because they grow up by teased for their ginger hair color.  14 Lower Rate of Prostate Cancer   To be a redhead is beneficial for men because according to some studies red headed men are 54 percent less likely to create prostate cancer. It means a lot for ginger men.  13 Redheads are Vampires   According to early Greeks believes Redheads were Vampires , and they also turn into vampires after they have died.  12 Less Hair Strands   Redheads have fewer hair than brunettes or blondes. According to research on an average, brunettes have 140,000 strands of hair; blondes have 110,000 strands of hair and redheads have 90,000 which is too less, but red hair is thicker than any other hair color.  11 Larger Dose of Anesthesia   In surgeries, it's been recommended that a few redheads require 20 percent larger doses of anesthesia as compared to a regular patient. Research proved this that redhead needs more anesthesia than people having other hair colors.  10 Absorption and Making of Vitamin D   They are more efficient at making Vitamin D . Redheads have the low amount of eumelanin in their body that is why they cannot absorb the required level of Vitamin D. In any case, they compensate for this by creating their particular Vitamin D when they are present in low-light condition.  So, they do not need as much sunlight to get what they need.  9 Concept of Christmas Communities   Christian communities considered a mark of the devil were birthmarks, patches and the major one was red hair. Many Christian communities believed that Judas was a redheaded textual proof from the Bible.  This belief really inspired some painters to paint Judas with red hair.  8 Aristotle Theory   Aristotle had some issues with redheads. Aristotle himself reported for the once saying "The reddish are of bad character" which shows that he hates redheads.  7 Resistant to Pain Blocker   Redheads are more resistant to pain blocker. Redhead gene releases a chemical called pheomelanin, which is the cause of blocks the brain’s receptivity/acceptance to pain.  6 Redheads are Genetic   Families can carry redhead gene for generations without knowing it. So, it is might possible that there could be some redhead gene inside you that can surprise you for being a redhead’s parent.  5 Temperature Sensors   Redheads are good at detecting changes in temperature than a person having any other hair color so, we can call them Temperature sensor.  4 Extinction of Redhead   According to research found by Britain DNA has found that more than 40 percent of the population carries the MC1R gene that is responsible for red hair . Redheads are not going to extinct because families have MC1R gene without knowing it.  3 Sensitive Teeth   According to some studies, redheads have more sensitive teeth. Redheads also bruise easily than those who have any other hair color.  2 Marilyn Monroe   Marilyn Monroe was also a redheaded. She was American actress and model. She was famous for her natural red hair.  1 Fall in Love with Redhead   Finally, if you look into redhead’s eye longer than 10 seconds, you will fall in love.  Redheads are always misunderstood and mistrust in the history. Previously, the people with red hair were considered to be an evil one, even nowadays many of us are having a lot of misconceptions about them.  Being a redhead is not an abnormality. Instead, it’s a blessing. If anyone of you has a redhead, then proud of it. We anticipate that you had an enjoyable journey while going through the article, and you get a lot to know about the redhead. Please let us know about your valuable feedback.      Trending Now                 Best Perfumes For Men That Can Drive Women Wild                               Exotic Low Maintenance Cool Pets That Are Legal To Own                               Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                       Advertisement   SUBSCRIBE TO OUR TOP MAILING LIST         Email Address     Website url                GOING VIRAL                 Hilarious & Funny Memes That Will Make You ROFL                               Famous Celebrities With Autism                               Largest Birds In The World                               Unbelievable Facts About The Human Body                                    Affiliate Earning Disclosure   WordsISeek.com receives the commission from sales made through the products, we recommend from Amazon.com. So, Words I Seek is the participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program which is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide means for the sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.      Key Pages Home  About Us  Contact Us     Key Pages Advertise With Us  Privacy Policy  Terms and Conditions            Back to top    © 2018 Wordsiseek.com                                                                   Home  About Genetics What is a Gene?  How Do Genes Work?  Why We are Different  Mutations and Disease  Genetic Testing  Making Medicines  New Therapies  Ethics   Ask a Geneticist Commonly Asked Questions  Categories  Submit a Question   Videos Peter Atkins  Daniel Dennett  Marc Hauser  Ian Tattersall   Online Exhibits What Color Eyes will your Children Have?  Are Genetic Tests Right For You  DNA Roulette  Do-it-Yourself Strawberry DNA  PTC Tasting  Zooming In to DNA  Seeing Color  Blushing From Alcohol  Genes In Common  Genes on Board  Are you a Super Taster?   Genetics in the News  Books  Courses  NIH-SEPA  Sponsors             The Tech Museum of Innovation             Share            Home  About Genetics  Ask a Geneticist Commonly Asked Questions  Categories  Submit a Question   Videos  Online Exhibits  Genetics in the News  Books  Courses  NIH-SEPA  Sponsors      A Handy Guide to Ancestry and Relationship DNA Tests     Click here to order our latest book, A Handy Guide to Ancestry and Relationship DNA Tests          Error message   Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 4 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 4 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 11 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).  Notice : Undefined index: und in __lambda_func() (line 20 of /srv/www/genetics.thetech.org/htdocs/sites/all/modules/views_php/plugins/views/views_php_handler_field.inc(202) : runtime-created function ).                Hair Color          Back to Hair Color           English   Español       Why is the combination of red hair and brown eyes so rare?        -A curious adult from Texas   May 18, 2007  No one knows for sure why this is. There isn't any evidence that the DNA changes that cause red hair also affect eye color. Or vice versa.  And the two aren't genetically linked like some other hair and eye colors. For example, blonde hair and blue eyes are known to be linked. Which is why blonde hair and brown eyes are so rare.  But we know this isn't the case for red hair and light colored eyes. How do we know this?  Because the DNA changes in the MC1R gene that cause red hair are on chromosome 16. And the DNA changes in the OCA2 gene that cause blue eyes are found on chromosome 15.  Genetically linked traits need to be on the same chromosome. Like blonde hair and blue eyes which are both found on chromosome 15. This is important because of how genes are passed on to our children.  We each have 23 pairs of chromosomes that contain almost all of our genes. We pass our genes down to our children in these chromosome chunks.  So if the DNA changes for blue eyes and blonde hair happen to both be on the same copy of chromosome 15, then they will tend to travel together*. Think about it like suitcases at the airport.  Imagine you have blonde hair coloring and blue contact lenses that you are taking with you on a trip. If you have two separate suitcases, then there is a chance that one might get sent to Detroit and the other to Honolulu. Your blonde hair coloring will be in one place and your contact lenses in another.  But if you only have one suitcase, everything in it will almost always travel together. Wherever your suitcase ends up, the blonde hair dye and the blue contact lenses will arrive at the same place.  Same thing with genes on the same chromosome. The DNA changes that cause blonde hair and blue eyes are usually on the same chromosome (in the same suitcase). So they usually arrive together.  But this explanation doesn't work for red hair and light eye color because the DNA changes that cause them are on different chromosomes. They are in different suitcases.  Most likely red hair and light colored eyes tend to be together because of luck. And the possible survival advantages of each and the light skin that comes with them.  Let's think back to a time before there was red hair. Imagine for some reason, the folks in Northern Europe have lighter colored eyes. This may be because their ancestors found lighter eyes more attractive ( sexual selection ). Or perhaps there is some other advantage ( click here for some possibilities).  So we have a population in Northern Europe with light colored eyes. And everywhere else there are brown eyes.  Now imagine that a DNA change happens in Africa and in Europe that causes red hair. This wouldn't be surprising -- our DNA changes all the time .  Most of the time these DNA changes don't matter. But sometimes they can cause a disease. And sometimes a DNA change can change how someone looks.  Now we have a redhead in Africa and one in Northern Europe. The redhead in Europe is very successful and does better than the folks around him. So the red hair spreads.  But the redhead in Africa has all sorts of problems. Eventually the red hair gene dies out because s/he can't compete as well as everyone else.  The end result of this is redheads with light colored eyes. Not because the genes are necessarily linked. But because the red hair happened to occur in a population with light colored eyes.  Of course we don't have any evidence for this story. But it is a plausible one because of a side effect of red hair -- light skin.  We need a certain amount of sunlight to make vitamin D. If you don't get enough vitamin D you end up with rickets , an awful disease.  The darker your skin is, the more sunlight you need. Northern Europe gets so little sunlight that lighter skinned people have a real advantage. People like redheads.  In Africa, people with light skin are at a real disadvantage. The extra sunlight exposure can cause birth defects by destroying their folic acid. And they will end up riddled with skin cancer later in life since no one has invented sunscreen yet.  So in which population do you think red hair will prosper and spread? Yup, amongst those Northern Europeans with light colored eyes.  Because of this, you just happen to end up with lots of redheads with light colored eyes. This is one idea anyway.  As more mixing between populations happens, we would predict that red hair and light colored eyes will both become less common. But another prediction, if the little story I've spun is true, is that a larger percentage of the redheads that are left may have brown eyes. We'll have to wait and see.  * This is a simplified version. Because of something called recombination, it is important that the DNA changes be on the same chromosome and close to each other. Click here for the details .     By Dr. Barry Starr      More Information    Blonde hair and blue eyes are linked Genetics of eye color Redheads will not die out           Back to Hair Color                           Search Ask a Geneticist                         Genes on the same chromosome tend to travel together.  Light skin is an advantage in sun-starved Northern Europe.                      Hair Color          Volver a la lista de Preguntas           English   Español           Volver a la lista de Preguntas                 Search Ask a Geneticist                                                   The Tech Museum of Innovation 201 South Market Street San Jose, CA 95113 +1 (408) 294-8324  The Tech Museum of Innovation 2013 © All rights reserved. The Tech Museum of Innovation is a registered 501 (c)(3). Federal ID # 94-2864660  This project was supported by the Department of Genetics, Stanford School of Medicine. Its content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of Stanford University or the Department of Genetics.         Privacy Policy  Disclaimer  Our Mission                                              Beauty  Celeb  Love  Fashion  Lifestyle  Subscribe    Follow                                             UK            Entertainment  Beauty   Makeup  Hair  Skincare  Beauty trends  Celebrity hair & makeup  Beauty lab    Love & sex   Love & sex  Relationships  Sex    Fashion   Fashion  Celebrity fashion  Fashion news  Style inspiration  Weddings  Tattoo Inspo    Work /Life   Worklife  Careers  College & Uni  Travel  Interiors  Food & Drink  Horoscopes    Body   Body  Health  Diet & nutrition  Fitness & workouts    News & Politics  NOW TV  Newsletter  Win  Subscribe  Events  Follow   Facebook  Twitter  Google+  Pinterest  Instagram  Youtube           US  UK  Spain  Netherlands  Italy  Taiwan  Japan               Type keyword(s) to search              Today's Top Stories   1   Chloë Grace Moretz hints Brooklyn Beckham cheated        2   How William & Kate will announce birth of baby        3   This woman's online shopping fail has gone viral        4   11 asos beauty products that always sell out        5   46 summer wedding guest dresses under £100           13 amazing facts about redheads that everyone needs to know  From how much sex redheads have to how they produce their own Vitamin D…              By Bridget March     Apr 5, 2017                               Getty Images             1. Red hair is a beautiful genetic mutation Both parents must be carriers of the mutated MC1R gene to be able to produce redhead offspring, of which there is a 25% chance if they don't have red hair themselves. 2. Less than 2% of the world's population have red hair That's approximately 140 million people. Scotland boasts the highest percentage of natural redheads, with 13% (40% might carry the gene there) while Ireland comes in second with 10%.  Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    3. Red hair can occur in any ethnicity It occurs more frequently (2-6%) in people of northern or western European ancestry, and less frequently in other populations. 4. Lucky redhead women have more sex That's according to a study by a German sex researcher who found that women with red hair had sex more often. A similar English study found that redhead gals had sex an average of three times a week, while our blonde and brunette counterparts have it twice a week. Shame the fellas weren't questioned, too. 5. It's a ballache to dye red hair Because it holds its pigment tighter than any other hair colour, red strands need to have their pigment stripped before being dyed by bleaching which, of course, damages the hair. Stay red!                      Getty Images     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    6. Red hair is thicker than other colours Each strand of red hair is generally thicker than other shades which compensates for the fact that redheads have less hair. Apparently they have – on average – 90,000 strands while blondes have 110,000, and brunettes have 140,000. 7. Redheads are more likely to develop skin cancer Because of their commonly fair skin and sensitivity to ultraviolet light, redheads are more likely to develop skin cancer. The International Journal of Cancer reported in 2010 that natural redheads are approximately two and a half times as likely to develop the dangerous cancer as people with other hair hues. 8. Blue eyed redheads are super rare Blue eyes and red hair forms the rarest combo on earth. Most (natural) redheads will have brown eyes, followed by hazel or green shades. 9. Redheads can change temperature quicker This is because – according to research – redheads are more sensitive to hot and cold pain. Nothing to do with their mythical fiery temperament! 10. Redheads don't go grey Red hair will never turn grey; it simply fades to white via rose gold when the time comes.                                 giphy    11. Redheads can produce their own Vitamin D As they can't sufficiently absorb Vitamin D (it's down to their lower melanin-concentration), redheads internally produce their own Vitamin D when they're exposed to low light conditions. Woah! 12. People with red hair are more likely to be left-handed Recessive traits often happen in pairs so commonly people with the gene for red hair also possess the trait for left-handedness. 13. Climate change is threatening the gene Given that red hair doesn't adapt to warm climes, the gene could - at some point - become extinct. A scientist told ScotlandNow: "I think the regressive gene is slowly dying out… Climate change could see a decline in the number of people with red hair in Scotland." Noooooo!      Advertisement - Continue Reading Below                         Share       Tweet        Pin       Email           More From  Hair         What I learned taking my hair from black to blonde          Meghan Markle's hairstyles through the years     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below        "Gem roots" is spring's newest hair trend           7 heat protection sprays that'll keep hair healthy        'Harry Potter' hair exists and I'm crying          The best detangling brushes for knotty AF hair         I've been using hair masks wrong my whole life       14 brunette hair trends that you're going to love           What every shade of blonde hair looks like IRL        8 things that could be making your hair greasy            Hair    Beauty    The brilliant blog that turns celebs into redheads    14 things you definitely didn't know about The Undateables    18 things you didn't know about Gogglebox    Sixth form student banned from lessons because of her red hair?    21 facts you never knew about 13 Reasons Why    7 need-to-know facts about A*M*E                                                            Beauty  Celeb  Love  Fashion  Lifestyle  Body  News & politics  Now TV  Newsletter  Subscribe   Cosmopolitan, Part of the Hearst UK Fashion & Beauty Network  Cosmopolitan participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.   ©2018 Hearst Magazines UK is the trading name of the National Magazine Company Ltd, 72 Broadwick Street, London, W1F 9EP. Registered in England 112955. All rights reserved.  Cookie Policy  Terms and Conditions  Complaints  Privacy Policy  Site Map                 Share       Tweet        Pin       Email                          Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions  Search form  Search  Vitality How to Live Better, Longer   6 Must-Have Tips To Awaken Skin All Winter Long Are you ready for the cold dark days that come with Daylight Saving Time? Prepare for winter skin before turning your clock back on Sunday.   To Lose Weight, Skip Dinner A Few Days A Week New research suggests that skipping dinner helps you burn more fat in the evening and may even help with weight loss.   What Is Aspirin — And Should You Take It Daily? The main ingredient in aspirin, salicin, is the oldest pain reliever in history, but it took time and science before it became the drug we recognize today. Under the Hood Behavior, Neuroscience & Your Brain   Runner's High? You're Growing New Brain Cells Your brain creates new cell growth and repair during aerobic exercises, such as running.   Science Explains Why Songs Get Stuck In Your Head Science explains why you can't get that catchy song out of your head.   Sunshine Actually Makes You Happy In a recent study, people reported more mental distress when the days were shorter and there was less sunshine. Innovation Technology & the Business of Medicine   These 2 Genes May Predict Your Breast Cancer Survival Rate Findings from a new study could help more women to overcome breast cancer.   'Mess-Free' Period Sex Is Now A Thing A new product promises to make sex during menstruation less of a mess.   We’re Closer Than Ever To Finding Cause Of Autism Researchers discovered hundreds of genes that could be connected with autism spectrum disorder. The Hill Healthcare, Policy & Governance   Veterans Have A Problem With Donald Trump’s Comment About PTSD Veterans did not respond well to Donald Trump's comments on PTSD, a common mental health disorder many soldiers face.   Countries Should Adopt Sugar Tax, Says World Health Organization The WHO wants countries to start taxing sugary drinks, and use the revenue to fight health problems sugar may worsen.   Where Do Hillary Clinton And Donald Trump Stand On Abortion? Here's what the presidential candidates have said on the controversial topic of abortion and reproductive rights. The Grapevine Breaking News and Trends   Condom-Free Male Birth Control Shot May Soon Be A Thing A male birth control shot may be on the horizon, and may provide competition for another product being tested — the male pill.   Will Someone Survive A Gunshot Wound? New Tool Could Answer Researchers have developed a new tool that has predicted with 96 percent accuracy whether people would survive a gunshot wound to the brain.   An Easier Way To Screen For Birth Defects May Be In Our Future Wayne State University researchers have developed a test that may be able to screen for birth defects as early as five weeks into pregnancy. Weird Medicine Science is Stranger Than Fiction   Would Eating Human Brains Make You Sick? Have a craving for human brains this Halloween? We don't suggest eating them.   4 Real Medical Illnesses That Were Blamed On Witchcraft Throughout history, people have attributed scary looking and unfamiliar illnesses to dark forces, including witches and demons.   You Wouldn't Expect These 6 Things To Cause Hallucinations People are generally aware of the most common causes of hallucinations, like schizophrenia and a really high fever. But lesser known are the more rare causes; here are six you probably haven't heard about. US / World  US / World Consumer News  Consumer News Policy / Biz  Policy / Biz Science / Tech  Science / Tech Drugs  Drugs Healthy Living  Healthy Living         Vitality Why Red Hair And Blue Eyes Is So Rare, Plus 4 Other Surprising Facts About Redheads  Mar 14, 2017 07:05 PM By  Lizette Borreli   @lizcelineb  l.borreli@medicaldaily.com         Five fast facts about redheads, from bruising easily to being left-handed, that you probably didn't know.  Photo courtesy of Pexels, Public Domain    Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail We can more easily spot a redhead in a crowd than a blonde or brunette. They are few and far between; about one to two percent of the population possesses natural red locks. However, their hair isn't the only thing that sets them apart - genetic differences can affect everything from their pain threshold to how easily they bruise. In the Reactions video , "The Chemistry of Redheads," the American Chemical Society explains redheads get their hair color and pale skin due to a genetic variant that causes their cells to produce reddish pheomelanin — a type of melanin. Redheads have a particularly high abundance of pheomelanin, with very little eumelanin, which ranges from brown to black. On the surface of melanocytes is a protein known as melanocortin 1 receptor, or MC1R. When it's activated, it causes melanocytes to specifically produce eumelanin over phenomelanin, which balances out an individual's ratio. Read More: 5 Secrets Your Hair Is Trying To Tell You About Your Health Contrastingly, redheads are born with a genetic variant that causes MC1R to chemically function differently on melanocytes, which leads to less eumelanin and more pheomelanin production. These genetic variants are recessive, meaning in order to be born a redhead, either non-redhead parents are carriers (25 percent), or one parent is a redhead and the other is a carrier (50 percent); or both parents are redheads (almost 100 percent). This makes redheads rare and unique both on the outside and inside. Take a look at other facts about redheads that you probably didn't know. Red Hair And Blue Eyes Is Rare The combination of having both red hair and blue eyes is so rare because blue eye color is also a recessive trait, meaning both parents must carry the gene for a child to have it. Red hair occurs naturally in one to two percent of the human population, while just 17 percent of the world's population has blue eyes. The majority of redheads have brown, hazel, or green eyes. Require More Anesthetic Redheads may be harder to sedate than blondes or brunettes, and require more anesthesia during surgery. In a 2004 study , redhead patients required 20 to 30 percent more anesthetic than other women to reach the same level of sedation. The same experiment was also replicated with mice, which found animals with a MC1R mutation also required more sedation. Researchers suspect because the gene belongs to the family group of genes that play a role in pain, the mutation causes redheads to be more sensitive to it. The genetic mutation could affect the activity of endorphins, known as the body's natural painkillers, which may lead to an increase in pain. Sensitive To Cold And Hot Sensations Gingers are more likely to be sensitive to cold and hot sensations than people with different hair colors. Researchers at Louisville University in Kentucky found they needed extra doses of anesthetic during surgery, and were susceptible to pain at around 43 degrees Fahrenheit, unlike those with dark hair who didn't begin to flunch until the temperature got down to freezing. It's believed MC1R may cause the temperature-detecting gene to become over-activated, making redheads more cold. More Likely To Bruise Redheads are also more likely to bruise. They have normal blood counts and coagulate blood like others, yet a 2006 study found they bruise more easily. Researchers suspect people who always bruise excessively may assume this is normal, because they've experienced it often. However, people who bruise only rarely may become concerned about a single bruise linked with minor trauma. There are some normal, healthy people who consider their bleeding and bruising to be excessive . Read More: 4 Ways Medical Conditions Can Change Your Hairstyle More Likely to To Be Left-Handed There is limited scientific research regarding being a redhead and a "lefty," but it seems to be common. Similar to having red hair, left-handedness is a recessive trait , with an estimated 10 to 12 percent of people being lefties . Recessive traits tend to come in pairs, which suggests why a lot of redheads are also left-handed. See Also: 7 Causes Of Male Hair Loss And How To Treat It A Man's Height May Predict Chances Of Premature Hair Loss  Comment  Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail                     Most Read                Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions   About Contact Advertising Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Subscribe  © 2018 Newsweek Media Group All rights reserved. Medical Daily is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendation. Read more .                                   Skip to main content     Sign in  Register    Go to: Guardian Unlimited home UK news World news Comment is free blog Sport blog Arts & entertainment blog Podcasts In pictures Video ---------------------- Archive search Arts and entertainment Books Business EducationGuardian.co.uk Environment Film Football Jobs Katine appeal Life and style MediaGuardian.co.uk Money Music The Observer Politics Science Shopping SocietyGuardian.co.uk Sport Talk Technology Travel Been there ---------------------- Audio Email services Special reports The Guardian The northerner The wrap ---------------------- Advertising guide Compare finance products Crossword Feedback Garden centre GNM press office Graduate Guardian Bookshop GuardianEcostore GuardianFilms Headline service Help / contacts Information Living our values Newsroom Notes & Queries Reader Offers Soulmates dating Style guide Syndication services Travel offers TV listings Weather Web guides Working for us ---------------------- Guardian Abroad Guardian Weekly Money Observer Public Learn Guardian back issues Observer back issues Guardian Professional             News    Sport    Comment    Culture    Business    Money    Life & style    Travel    Environment    TV    Video    Data    Mobile    Offers    Jobs        News    Guardian           Home     Recent queries     Send a query     Crossword     Lucky dip     Any answers?     About Notes and Queries     Sudoku                    Categories       Nooks and crannies        Yesteryear        Semantic enigmas        The body beautiful        Red tape, white lies        Speculative science        This sceptred isle        Root of all evil        Ethical conundrums        This sporting life        Stage and screen        Birds and the bees          THE BODY BEAUTIFUL I have a question about hair color. I have light brown hair and my husband has red hair. I want to know what the probability of having a child with red. Is it likely?  Ashley, Saratoga Springs United States   Very likely !
Red hair carries a far more dominant chromosome than brown hair. rebecca, bradford uk    This depends if you have a red hair gene stored in your DNA. We each have a pair of genes for any trait like hair color, one from each parent.
The one that takes precedent is the dominant gene. Red hair is a recessive gene, so your husband has two red hair genes. The only way for your child to have red hair is if you have a recessive red gene (being covered by the dominant brown hair gene) and that is the gene that gets passed onto the baby. Kayla Iacovino, Tempe, United States    To add to Kayla Iacovino's answer. If you don't have the recessive Red gene none of your offspring will have red hair but all of them will carry the red gene from their dad so red-headed grandchildren are on the cards. If you do have the recessive red gene then 1 in 4 of your children will be redheads. G. Baker, South Ockendon, UK    If it's lucky! Vivienne, London, UK    Actually the red hair gene is recessive to blonde and brown etc. You have two alleles, one from your mom and one from your dad. In your husbands case he has "Red"/"Red" and you could have "Brown"/"Brown", "Brown"/"Blonde", of "Brown"/"Red". If it is the first couple then your children CANNOT have red hair, impossible. However if you happen to have a recessive red hair gene perhaps from one of your parents who might have had it as well then there is a high chance. You give either a Brown or Red gene and your husband gives a Red or Red gene so I'd say a 50% in that case.
But probably 0% but as mentioned, watch out for grandchildren ;) two people who don't have red hair but carry the gene can have children who have red hair. Darren Bridgewater, Hartlepool England    Years and years ago, before my husband and I were married, or even going out together, he said to me jokingly one day, "We could never get married, because our kids would be redheads!" (I have darkish red hair, he had very dark reddish hair). As it turned out, we did get married and our three kids all do have red hair... all are, of course, gorgeous! No, really! In Ireland, there isn't the same awful "ginger" stigma that there is in England. Nurn, Galway    I have blonde/brown hair, and my husband has red hair. My first son has brown eyes and brown hair with a few surprsing RED hairs all over his head. Interesting huh?
I want to see grandchildren with red hair. Melanie, North Babylon USA    To correct a few errors above. If you are not carrying the red hair gene all your children will have a red hair gene from their father and a non-red one from you and so probably be non-red. Current knowledge suggests it is not a zero chance; there is at least one other, different but rare, gene that can give red hair, and there are red haired individuals who appear to have only a red/non-red genetic makeup.
On the other hand if you are a red hair carrier, so you have one red and one non-red gene, then each child will have essentially a 50% chance of having two red-hair genes. But this doesn't necessarily mean that the child will have red hair. The "red hair" gene actually comes in several version, some of which are incompletely expressed so they may only give red hair say 10% of the time. The reason for this is not known but probably involves interactions with other genes.
So what are the chances of carrying a red hair gene? Analysis of UK or UK origin populations finds that almost half the population are carriers of one or another red hair form of the gene, so you have a high chance of being a carrier.
I should also say that current data suggests that the gene or genes responsible for blonde versus non-blonde are different from the red non-red gene. Ian Jackson, Edinburgh UK    Why risk it? Alex, Derby, England    What do you mean 'why risk it'     Well first of all I wish I lived in Ireland! If they don't have the stigma of being a horrid "ginger" then I'm going!
I have dark red hair from parents with brown hair (and freckles). My brother has brown hair. I have 2 grandparents on each side who had red hair - hence it hiding in my parents, until they met and produced one brown haired baby and one (me) red head.
My boyfriend has also got red hair (but very pale) but his parents are both non-red heads. He doesn't know about his grandparents.
Will we have children with red hair 100%? It is everybody else's main concern! Melanie, London, UK    well...its look like you are talking about my case..:), my mother has light brown hair and my dad has red hair..i got the red hair as the first child but my youngest brother and sister has light brown hair. Reem, Jordan    This post is probably closed by now, I replied to it a long time ago.
I remember when I was a kid in the USA (long time ago), people (ok, women) used to stop me and ooh and aah after my hair colour and told me I was so lucky to have hair that colour.
They do the same now to my daughters now , in Ireland, where every well-to-do woman is now very blonde with an orangey tan; but not to my son, although his hair is more blondey-red.
Guess what, though? Hair colour doesn't guarantee you a happy life! Who'd have thought? Nurn, Galway Ireland    I have mousy brown hair and my boyfriend has ginger hair containing a mix of brown as well
We have two kids together, our first one has brown hair but when he is in the sun you can see the ginger colour on top and our second child also a boy has black hair but also same with him has the ginger colour on top when he's in the sun
But you cant ask for it, it just happens with the hair colour, you can say i want a ginger haired kid, you just have to wait and see really. jodie, united kingdom    My husband had blonde hair, I have darkish brown, and I had 4 children - one blonde one brown and two redheads, whoops did I get a ribbing!! mary durant, worthing west sussex    Genes are strange things...
I have ginger hair and light brown eyes and my sister has dark brown hair and light brown eyes also (our mum has black hair and brown eyes / dad has light brown hair and grey eyes. All grandparents were dark brown or black haired). My partner has dark brown hair and blue eyes (his mum has dark brown hair with brown eyes / his dad is dark brown hair and blue eyes).
Our daughter has blonde hair (no ginger tones at all) and green eyes.
My sister has 5 kids. Their father is half Chinese with black hair. All her kids have light brown hair but all have ginger tones/ highlights especially when they have been in the sun.
Like I said, genes are strange things :) Kay, London Uk   Add your answer                          Privacy policy | Terms & conditions | Advertising guide | A-Z index | Inside guardian.co.uk | About this site Join our dating site today guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media Limited 2011                      Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search  Social Media         Header Ad Get Beauty Box    How to be a Redhead  Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search    Confident Lifestyle // April 13, 2015 Stay in the Know - Subscribe to our Newsletter The Big Question: Will You Have a Redhead Baby? By: Rosemary O. Fernandez Around this time last year, I got the best news of my life: My husband and I were expecting a baby! We kept it to ourselves for a while, but soon told our family and friends. As I inevitably expanded, I was asked the inevitable question: Will the little one have red hair too? This was a perfectly reasonable question as I was born with screaming red hair –the kind of shade that has prompted numerous strangers to tell me I have the map of Ireland written on my face despite the fact that I’m mostly Italian. I inherited these locks from my (Italian) mother, and my husband’s mother and grandfather are also gingers. Needless to say, the odds were in the little guy’s favor. Thirty-eight weeks slugged by, and I’d estimate that I heard the question about three times a week. Coworkers joked about it. Family members hoped for it. Random people at the grocery store thought it would be terrific. Naturally all my husband and I prayed for was a healthy child. Whether he popped out with red, blonde, brown, or green hair, we’d cuddle and dote on him just the same. But I’d be lying if I said I never crossed my fingers and daydreamed about strolling down the street with a fiery-headed toddler in tow. Here are some facts to see if  you will have a redhead baby: 1. In order for a baby to have red hair, both parents have to carry the gene, since it’s a recessive trait. So if you’re a ginger and you marry a ginger, odds are, your kids will be gingers, too. If only one parent has the locks but the other is a carrier, the baby’s chances are 50/50. If neither of you are red but you both are carriers, you have a one in four chance of a fiery-haired child. And, sorry to say, if only one parent is not a carrier (even though the other is), you’ve got no shot. [ Source ] 2. Even though you might not be a redhead yourself, studies estimate that 25 percent of Caucasian Americans carry the ginger gene, so if you fall into this category you might end up with a redheaded baby when you’re least expecting it. [ Source ] READ: 10 Things To Know If You’re a Redhead Baby My reasons weren’t purely aesthetic, because for me, my hair color is a huge part of my personality. I’m confident. I’m intelligent. I’m friendly. I’m funny (though my husband says it’s usually when I don’t mean to be). Growing up, my hair helped me cultivate these qualities. I’m used to strangers addressing me simply because they want to pay me a compliment about my hair; therefore I have no problem doing the same to someone else when I like their outfit or a speech they presented. On the first day of school when teachers called my name, they also told me they liked my hair; hence I became comfortable in a classroom from an early age, absorbed more information, and was never too timid to raise my hand when I knew the answer. I’m often the only redheaded in my group of friends, so I developed a good sense of direction; since I’m the most easily spotted in a crowd, my pals often followed me when we were out. Here are some other fun facts about redheads in general: Enjoy those baby blues while they last. The world’s rarest hair and eye color combo is red hair and blue eyes. [ Source ]  number 4 on list ] Redheads are more likely to be left-handed. [ Source ] Redheaded babies are the cutest babies. Ok, this one’s just my opinion. READ: Facts About Redheads That May Surprise You I want all this and more for my child. More than I want to dress him in t-shirts that have fun redheaded slogans, I want him to be confident. I want him to know he’s smart. I want him to not be afraid to be kind. Though hair color doesn’t determine these qualities, I know from experience that it helps. Sixteen weeks after birth, what’s the verdict? The jury’s still out. The baby was born with dark hair. Those strands have now mostly fallen out, and it looks like some red is replacing it. Only time will tell. But I still have my fingers crossed. Rock it like a Redhead! Photo Credit: Joanna McVey Tweet Share Pin    Author:  H2BAR Team Tweet Share Pin Related Articles Related Posts  6 Things That Happen to You When You’re a Redheaded Mom of Redheaded Babies  Her Story: The Experience of Being a Redhead  6 Ways Redheads Can Halt Postpartum Hair Loss  10 Pros and Cons of the “How to be a Redhead” Book MailChimp Signup Get Red-Mail Turn Your Mailbox Red... The hottest trends, tips, videos & more  Email Address *  Sidebar Ad Instagram Header Follow Us On Instagram  @howtobearedhead // Use #howtobearedhead Instagram             What & Why How to be a Redhead® is empowering every redhead to feel confident, to look amazing and to rock their beauty. Red hair is more than a color, it’s a lifestyle! meet co-founders adrienne & stephanie Try the beauty box Essential Guide   Newsletter Link Don't Miss Out - Join Our Newsletter Social Media         Footer Menu About Redhead Friendly Approved Contact Privacy Policy Events Press Copyright © How To Be A Redhead                        Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search  Social Media         Header Ad Get Beauty Box    How to be a Redhead  Home Hair + Beauty Style Shop H2BAR Box Home About Confidence Contact Search    Confidence // August 13, 2014 Stay in the Know - Subscribe to our Newsletter Facts About Redheads That May Surprise You 1. Red hair and blue eyes is the rarest combination in the world. Photo Credit: Angelica Photography 2. Redheads soak up more sun. It is because they usually have less melanin producing capacity in their skin and thus are more sun sensitive than are their dark haired counterparts, who usually have darker skin, more melanin, and therefore more sun protection capacity. Read more here . 3. As reported by The Independent , the redhead gene could be on its way out because the gene is thought to be a response to cloudy weather in Scotland ; something the country could see less and less of due to global warming. Read more here . 4. The Irish Central reported about a new US study at Penn State University. “They found out that Europeans’ light skin stems from a gene mutation from a single person who lived 10,000 years ago. Read more here . Photo Credit 5. A redhead’s light skin is incredibly sensitive and can burn easily when in contact with lime juice. “I want to let people know about this type of burn because it is especially severe for people with fair skin, like redheads.” Read Shelby Anderson’s story here . 6. Redheads may feel more pain at the dentist. Read more here . 7. It has been proven that redheads need larger doses of anesthesia and are often resistant to local pain blockers like novocaine. Read more here . 8. Natural redheads could be at greater risk of melanoma without sun exposure. Read more here . 9. It is useful to know that if the red hair gene is in your family history, then even if you do not have red hair yourself, you do carry the gene. Read more here.  Photo Credit 10. Redheads bruise more! Read more here . 11. Rocks those shades! A majority of redheads have light colored eyes, which has less pigment. This causes sensitivity to the sun’s harmful rays more than brown or black eyes. It’s very important that all redheads wear sunglasses to keep their eyes safe. Read more here . Rock it like a Redhead! Tweet Share Pin    Author:  H2BAR Team Tweet Share Pin Related Articles Related Posts  10 Things You Might Not Know About Wigs For Kids  13 Astounding Facts About Redheads  News Flash: Not All Redheads Are Irish  10 Redhead Romance Films For Valentine’s Day MailChimp Signup Get Red-Mail Turn Your Mailbox Red... The hottest trends, tips, videos & more  Email Address *  Sidebar Ad Instagram Header Follow Us On Instagram  @howtobearedhead // Use #howtobearedhead Instagram             What & Why How to be a Redhead® is empowering every redhead to feel confident, to look amazing and to rock their beauty. Red hair is more than a color, it’s a lifestyle! meet co-founders adrienne & stephanie Try the beauty box Essential Guide   Newsletter Link Don't Miss Out - Join Our Newsletter Social Media         Footer Menu About Redhead Friendly Approved Contact Privacy Policy Events Press Copyright © How To Be A Redhead                              Keesler Welch  Your awesome Tagline       About the author  New England newbie. International Development professional at MIT. Blogging about: traveling, international affairs, South Asia, recipes, water & sanitation, economic development. View Keesler Welch's profile   Ask me anything  Submit a post        Search      Blog Tools   Archive  RSS         40 notes  February 7, 2010  Facts and Myths about Red Hair    —-Red hair is a genetic mutation. —-The first human redheads walked this earth about 50,000 years ago in Africa and then spread throughout Northern Europe. —-Redheaded women are genetically better at coping with pain. —- Professor Jonathan Rees conducted a study of redheads at Edinburgh University. He identified the “gene for red hair” the melanocortin 1 receptor. Professor Rees found that this single gene, carried by up to 40% of Scots, was responsible for red hair. —-Scientists say some Neanderthals (extinct hominids) could have had fair skin and red hair.  Light skin would have been an evolutionary advantage for Neanderthals by allowing them to soak up more vitamin D from the sun in cloudy Europe. —- From 1483 to 1784, thousands of were suspected of witchcraft. Women accused of witchcraft were searched for ‘Witch marks’; any abnormality - moles, freckles, warts and especially red hair. Approximately 45,000 women were tortured and murdered by burning at the stake or drowning. —-Redheads don’t turn grey. Red hair turns sandy, then white.  They are also found to loose their color later in life than people carrying other hair colors. —-In Denmark, it’s an honor to have a redheaded child. In Corsica, if you pass one on the street you spit and turn around. In Poland, it’s said if you pass three redheads, you’ll win the state lottery.   In Greek Mythology, redheads turn into Vampires when they die. —-In cases of severe malnutrition, normally dark human hair may turn red or blond. The condition, known as kwashiorkor, is a sign of critical starvation caused by protein deficiency, and is common during periods of famine. —-The genetics of red hair is now being uncovered, together with connections between red hair and melanoma and other skin disorders, and red hair and problems with anesthesia.  A 2002 study found that redheads are harder to sedate than any other people requiring twenty percent more anesthesia. Inadequate doses cause people to wake up during surgery and have increased recall of procedures. —-Adults have about 120,000 hairs on their head; redheads have fewer, blondes have more, brunettes have the most. —-The country name of Russia means “land of reds” in honor of a redheaded Viking by the name of Rurik. —-Red hair is seen on the heads of only four percent of people. Most of these exist in the U.K., the Republic of Ireland, and Australia. The highest percentage of natural redheads in the world is in Scotland (13%), followed closely by Ireland with 10%. In the US, about 2% of the population are natural redheads. —-Red hair and brown eyes are uncommon because there is a low chance that the gene for brown eyes will recombine onto a chromosome with the gene for red hair, and in order for someone to have red hair and brown eyes, they would have to have two copies of the gene for red hair and at least one copy of a gene for brown hair. —-Redheads have always been thought untrustworthy. As a 17th-century Frenchman observed, “Judas, it is said, was red-haired.”  —-Superstitions: 1) red hair is unlucky; 2) it’s lucky to rub your hand on a redhead’s head; 3) bees sting redheads more readily. —-The Egyptians regarded the color as so unlucky that they had a ceremony in which they burned redheaded maidens alive to wipe out the tint. —-The Romans kept red haired slaves, and at a higher price. —-Adolph Hitler reportedly banned the marriages of two redheads, as he feared their children would be “deviant offspring”. —-At some point in history Brahmins were forbidden to marry redheads. —-“Ill beat you like a redheaded stepchild”. This phrase was born out of the American south and implies the status of illegitimate offspring with a white master. —-Rees (2004) suggested that the vividness and rarity of red hair may lead to its becoming desirable in a partner and therefore it could become more common through sexual selection.     picfxr reblogged this from keeslerwelch and added: (via blggst) picfxr liked this sorry-i-cant-be-honest liked this alach1983 reblogged this from keeslerwelch  etherealdilemma reblogged this from keeslerwelch  etherealdilemma liked this musicallymaniacal reblogged this from keeslerwelch  updowntoandfro reblogged this from keeslerwelch  we-shall-be-petrichor liked this blissismyth reblogged this from keeslerwelch  blissismyth liked this vol-au-ventbaudelaire liked this maboya661 liked this red-rotes reblogged this from keeslerwelch  red-rotes liked this ruriiroame reblogged this from keeslerwelch and added: (via blggst) thehorsewasasurprise reblogged this from keeslerwelch  thehorsewasasurprise liked this supremecupcake reblogged this from keeslerwelch  supremecupcake liked this apathetic-robot-queen reblogged this from keeslerwelch  themoonishiding liked this blindboysdontlie reblogged this from keeslerwelch  blindboysdontlie liked this ciarastuart-df reblogged this from dirtycolorblind  dirtycolorblind reblogged this from blggst  keeslerwelch reblogged this from blggst  blggst posted this     We love Tumblr  &  Stationery by Thijs                            MORE Sign In Join    89    Owlcation » STEM » Genetics & Evolution     Redheads: The Genetics of Hair Color Updated on October 15, 2017   Leah Lefler   more Contact Author   Genetics of Red Hair What do Napoleon Bonaparte, Oliver Cromwell, and Thomas Jefferson have in common? Besides the obvious similarity as heads-of-state, all three had red hair.  Hair color ranges from platinum blond to ebony, due to levels of pigments produced by specialized cells called melanocytes. Those with dark hair have cells that produce a pigment called eumelanin, and those with blond or red hair have cells that produce pheomelanin. The relative ratio of eumelanin to pheomelanin determines a person’s hair color. A complete absence of both pigments leads to white hair color.  The gene responsible for determining hair color is called the Melanocortin 1 Receptor, or MC1R. If the MC1R gene is active, it produces eumelanin and a person will have darker skin and hair. If the MC1R gene does not function (i.e. it is blocked or inactivated), the melanocytes will produce pheomelanin instead of eumelanin. A person with a malfunctioning MC1R gene will have blond or red hair, due to the lack of eumelanin, along with freckles. MC1R gene mutations are seen in all ethnicities.   My husband and son carry MC1R polymorphisms, and display the red hair phenotype. | Source       MC1R Gene Location The MC1R gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 16. Its official location is 16q24.3, and is 3,098 base pairs in length. Depending on the specific mutation (known as a polymorphism in the language of genetics), hair color will range from strawberry blond to auburn. The MC1R gene encodes a protein made up of 317 amino acids. Over 35 sites on the gene have been identified with polymorphisms, and only a small number of these mutations cause red hair shades.   Red Hair Mutations and Hair Color   Allele   Phenotype   R151C   red hair, increased melanoma risk   R160W   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   D294H   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   R142H   red hair, pale skin, increased melanoma risk   D84E   red hair, increased melanoma risk   V60L   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk   V92M   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk   R163Q   Weak red hair gene, increased melanoma risk      How likely am I to Have a Child with Red Hair? Red hair is recessive, which means a person may have brown hair, and carry the “red gene” without expressing the hair color. A person must have two copies of the recessive gene to express the trait. The chances of having a child with red hair depend on the genes of the parents. For simplicity’s sake, the various polymorphisms in the MC1R gene will be called the “red hair gene.” The red hair gene will be labeled as a lowercase r in the charts below and brown hair will be labeled with an upper case R.   Case 1: Parents with Brown Hair In the first scenario, two parents have brown hair and do not carry any polymorphisms on the MC1R gene. In other words, neither of the parents is a carrier for the red hair gene. None of their children will have red hair, unless a new mutation arises spontaneously. These parents have almost no chance of having a child with red hair, unless a de novo mutation were to arise.         Case 2: Brown-Haired Carriers In the second scenario, both parents have brown hair, but carry a red-hair causing gene. These parents are both called “carriers” of the gene. In this case, the parents will have a 25% chance of having a child with brown hair who does not carry the red gene. They have a 50% chance of having a child with brown hair who carries the red gene. There is a 25% chance that the parents will have a child with red hair.     Case 3: Parents with Brown and Red Hair A third possibility involves a parent with red hair and a parent with brown hair. The parent with brown hair in this case is not a carrier of the red gene. Each of the children will have one allele for the red hair gene, and will be carriers of the gene. None of the children, however, will display the physical trait of having red hair.         Case 4: Parents with Brown Hair (Carrier) and Red Hair In a fourth scenario, one parent has red hair and the other has brown hair, but is a carrier of the red gene. There is a 50% chance that the children will have red hair, and a 50% chance that the children will be brown-haired carriers of the red gene.  This is the scenario in my own family: I have brown hair and probably do not carry red-causing MC1R polymorphisms. My husband, however, has the classic red hair phenotype. One of my sons is blond, and the other has strawberry blond hair.     Case 5: Parents with Red Hair The last case includes two parents with red hair: in this situation, all of the children would have the same phenotype as the parents. The children will all have red hair, since neither parent has the dominant "brown hair" MC1R genotype. In some cases, different polymorphisms (alleles) may be inherited from each parent. This scenario is common in locations where red hair is a common occurrence: primarily in Scotland and Ireland.         Genetic Mutation MC1R: Beyond Hair Color The MC1R gene is expressed in many cells, and is responsible for more than hair color. MC1R plays a role in inflammatory response, pain sensitivity, and the immune system. The far reaching effects of the MC1R gene are listed below:  Cancer risk  Redheads have an increased risk for melanoma, as the melanocytes in people with red hair do not produce the protective eumelanin pigment. Unfortunately, the risk of cancer is increased even when there is no exposure to sunlight , so those with red hair should have regular check-ups with a dermatologist to monitor any skin changes. It is important to note that people who have dark skin and MC1R mutations are also at risk for skin cancer.  Increased pain sensation  People who have red hair are more sensitive to pain caused by burns and freezing than people with brown hair. Studies performed by Edwin B. Liem at the National Institutes of Health demonstrated an increased sensation of pain caused by thermal changes, and an increased need for anesthetic. Redheads required 19% more anesthetic than their brown haired counterparts. Interestingly, those with red hair demonstrate a reduced sensitivity to stinging pain (the type of pain encountered when receiving an injection). The MC1R gene affects the binding of endorphins, which are the body’s natural painkillers.   Melanoma Risk in Europe A map showing the density of light-eyed people in Western Europe. Melanoma risk increases for those who produce less eumelanin. | Source   Famous Redheads Emily Dickinson, the American poet  Antonio Vivaldi, the Italian composer  Mark Twain, the American author  Malcolm X, civil rights activist  Cleopatra, Egyptian ruler  Vladimir Lenin, Russian revolutionary    Red Hair Stereotypes and Beliefs The most common modern stereotype about redheads is that red hair comes with a fiery, feisty personality. Earlier in history, redheads faced more dangerous beliefs about their red hair. In ancient Egypt, redheads were burned alive as a sacrifice to the god Osiris. Their ashes were blown over agricultural fields by winnowing fans and used as fertilizer for the season’s crops. Early Egyptians regarded red hair as an unlucky trait.  In the middle ages, those with red hair could be labeled as witches or vampires. The Malleus Maleficarum (a report on witches in the Middle Ages) states, “Those whose hair is red, of a certain peculiar shade, are unmistakably vampires.”       Other Causes of Red Hair Some people do not come by their red hair via the MC1R gene. One type of albinism (type 3, or rufous albinism) demonstrates a phenotype of red hair and ruddy skin. This form of albinism is most common in New Guinea and Africa.  Severe malnutrition can lead to a condition known as kwashiorkor – the deprivation of protein and calories from an individual’s diet will lead to failure to thrive, edema, excessive hair growth, and depigmentation, along with the development of red hair. The Biblical story of Esau is fascinating in this regard, because the Bible describes Esau as covered in red hair. As the story goes, Esau sold his birthright as the first-born son to his younger twin, in exchange for a bowl of soup. While the story is intended to demonstrate the hazards of placing material desires over a spiritual blessing, one has to wonder if Esau was simply suffering from the effects of kwashiorkor.  Proopiomelanocortin deficiency (POMC) is a genetic disease resulting in obesity, adrenal insufficiency, and red hair . Children with this genetic disorder exhibit early onset severe obesity and striking red hair, due to the effects the POMC gene has on ACTH production and the influence this gene has on the phaeomelanin:eumelanin ratio in cells.   Redhead Nicknames There are various nicknames used around the world for those who have red hair. Sometimes the nicknames are affectionate, but many of the nicknames are used as insults.  Ranga: An Australian nickname for people with red hair. The word is a shortened version of the word orangutan.  Ginger: A name used for redheads, most commonly used in the U.K. The cartoon series South Park satirized the persecution of redheads with a genocidal campaign against "ginger people."  Carrot Top: A nickname often used in the United States, comparing red hair to the color of carrots.  Koakage: The Japanese word for redheads - the word "akage" indicates the red hair and the prefix "ko" for something small or cute.    The Myth of Redhead Extinction News reports reported on the imminent extinction of redheads in August 2007 . Like many other myths circulating on the internet, the reports were incorrect. Based on the incorrect assumption that recessive genes will "die out" over time, the news reports stated that the gene for red hair would be gone by the year 2060. The reports supposedly came from the Oxford Hair Foundation, but no such scientific entity exists. The Oxford Hair Foundation manufactures beauty products and is not an academic facility. The claim that redheads are going extinct is completely false: recessive genes may become rare, but will not disappear from the human genome. Red hair will exist well beyond the year 2060!   Natural Hair Color Poll What color is your hair?  Black  Brown  Blond  Red, Strawberry Blond, or Auburn See results   Questions & Answers Question: When I was younger, I had dark brown hair, but very red highlights. The red was most noticeable when the sun is at a lower angle in the sky. My eyebrows are black. My mustache was auburn with deep red highlights. I had a few stray deep red hairs in my beard, but mostly it was black and dark brown with red highlights. My body hair is entirely dark brown with golden red hghlights. Is this pattern a form of being a redhead? Does it suggest the genetic mutation for red hair? Answer: Mutations in the MC1R gene... Question: My mother and father have black hair and I am redhead. What hair color would my child have? Answer: Your child would likely... Question: I have strawberry blonde hair.  Are the genetic characteristics of a redhead and a strawberry blonde the same? Answer: The same gene is responsible... Question: I have blonde hair and my husband has black hair. We have two boys who have deep auburn hair. Is this rare for both of our boys to get this hair trait? Answer: It is likely that you and... Question: Everyone in my family is a redhead except for me. I don't tan, and I blister and burn in the sun. I color my hair red because it looks good. People have never seen me as a brunette, and think I am a natural redhead or blonde. Do I get dark hair from my grandmother, who is also dark-headed like me? Answer: There are several genes that... show more Question: As a child, I had auburn hair. As I got older, my hair went brown with red highlights. Now, my hair looks red in the sun. However, my roots have been dark brown since puberty. The hair on my entire body is medium brown with red highlights. My dad had auburn hair, and my son has black hair with red highlights with some red hair mixed in. Several other family members have auburn hair as well. Am I a redhead or not? Answer: It is very likely you have...                   Related History Redheads: Myths, Legends, and Famous Red Hair by Christoph Reilly 529  Chemistry The Science Behind Permanent Hair Coloring by Leah Kennedy-Jangraw 2  Genetics & Evolution The Y Chromosome: Ancestry, Genetics, and the Making of a Man by Leah Lefler 28        Popular Genetics & Evolution Rarest Eye Color in Humans by Edmund Custers 518  Genetics & Evolution Blood of the Irish:  What DNA Tells Us About the Ancestry of People in Ireland by Marie McKeown 201  Genetics & Evolution 6 Rare and Unique Eye Colors by Tatiana 113        Comments Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account. 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites. sending LoneTimberWolf 10 days ago  Thank you Leah. Most are not as kind.  Author Leah Lefler 11 days ago  from Western New York I would love to travel to Alaska one day, Lone Timberwolf. We also live in a low-sun location during the winter (Western NY), but our summers are sunny and typically are in the mid 80's. I have to stay on top of the sunscreen for my children, as their skin is very prone to sunburn. Your hair is beautiful!  Author Leah Lefler 11 days ago  from Western New York Hair color for people with blonde or red hair often darkens with age, as certain genes are switched off and on throughout childhood and puberty. Eumelanin production typically increases with age.  LoneTimberWolf 11 days ago  Aye, livin' in Alaska was a low sun environment during th' winter. but what most don't seem to realize is that it gets into the 90's during th' summer. And thank ye my friends also think My hair and eye combination is quite pretty as well. My profile picture is actually a picture of me, not something I  found on the internet.  shreyash11 11 days ago  will my hair colour get darker as... age by age ??  Author Leah Lefler 12 days ago  from Western New York Shreyash, you could always have your hair dyed to a darker color if you would like to do so.  shreyash11 13 days ago  I am redhead..my hair colour is getting partially dark brown...then What should i do for to make my hair colour darkest brown ..??  Author Leah Lefler 2 weeks ago  from Western New York Shreyash11, it is impossible to say with certainty, but your baby will most likely demonstrate the phenotype of dark hair if you marry someone with dark hair. The child may or may not have the mutations responsible for red hair, but it is likely to be masked by the darker hair. Genetics is tricky to predict (due to crossing-over during meiosis and other intricacies), so you never really know until the child is born.  Author Leah Lefler 2 weeks ago  from Western New York Your parents likely each carry MC1R genetic mutations, Madison - I bet your hair is beautiful! I have brown hair, my husband had very red hair (it is now much darker and appears brown) and my son has strawberry blonde hair that is getting darker with age.  Madison 2 weeks ago  I have red hair and my parents have black and brown hair  shreyash11 2 weeks ago  I am redhead boy...but my parants have typically black hair & if i marry with black hair colourd girl then which hair colour will my baby have ???      Author Leah Lefler 5 weeks ago  from Western New York What a cool combination of rare eye and hair color, Lone Timberwolf! Living in Alaska would definitely be a low-sun environment. We live in Western NY and do not get very much sun, and my pale, red (now brown) haired child does well in the low-sun environment.  LoneTimberWolf 5 weeks ago  I have bright red hair, as does my da, aunt, grandma, and great grandma. We all have the MC1R mutation, and my mother is a carrier, but she had blonde hair and brown eyes. I somehow got amber eyes, though my mom and sisters eyes are brown, and my da's are green. I can tan, with much effort and many sunburn, but I am most comfortable in cold climates with little sun, such as when I lives in alaska. So I got one of the rarest eye colors in the world, and the rarest hair color as well. ^-^  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Laura, I wanted to add the OTC 23 and Me test only tests for three variants on the MC1R gene. Well over 30 variants are known to cause the red-hair phenotype, so it is quite possible you have a variant not tested by the kit.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Hello, Laura - 23 and Me is an over the counter test. If you can buy it online, it is over-the-counter. To have full sequencing of the MC1R gene, you would need a prescription and the oversight of a geneticist. 23 and Me (along with other OTC genetics kits) only look for the most common allele or mutation in most genes.  Laura 2 months ago  Thanks for the reply Leah. It wasnt an over the counter test, i used the 23 and me testing which covers all of them in detail.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York Hi Laura - there are over 30 different alleles for MC1R, and it is likely that any over the counter genetic testing product only tests for the most common variants. The most likely explanation is that you do have a variant in the MC1R gene that wasn't detected by the test, as most OTC evaluations are produced to find the most common alleles. Another explanation would be that you carry another gene (other than MC1R) that is affecting hair color, though nearly all people with red hair carry a mutation in the MC1R gene. Other genes are suspected of playing a role in hair and skin pigmentation, however, so genetics is a bit more complicated than a Punnett square might suggest.  Author Leah Lefler 2 months ago  from Western New York It is quite possible you either carry or have the gene, philessense. The only way to tell for sure would be genetic testing.  philessense 2 months ago  Mother and 3 sibs are redheads. Father, dark brown w/ blue eyes, fair skin never tanned. Eldest brother and I brown hair with red in it if I try to go blonde. My redheaded sibs consider me dark, as I am able, with much effort, to build a bit of a tan and they can't. But I'm quite pale, burn and blister more easily than normal people. And when I am at my darkest, people tell me I am too pale. I have always assumed I had the red hair gene.  Laura 2 months ago  Hi. I’ve just had genetic testing done and i do not carry the red hair gene. I have dark brown hair. However my partner has red hair and so do both of my children. I thought both parents had to have the gene?      Author Leah Lefler 3 months ago  from Western New York It is so interesting to see the variations in expression with the red-hair gene, Leslie! My children are similar (my husband is a red-head and my oldest is dark blond and my youngest is strawberry blond).  Leslie Yee 3 months ago  My husband is a red head rr (2 recessive red), I am brunette Bb (1 dominant brown, 1 recessive blonde). We have 2 brunette daughters, and one dark blonde daughter. All daughters have one recessive red hair gene.  Catherine Dye 3 months ago  What are the possible hair color types for a child born to one red haired parent and one brunette parent who carries a recessive blonde hair gene? Would it be 50% brunette with a recessive red and 50% strawberry blonde? or would the other 50% just turn out red? What happens when two different colored recessive genes pair up?  Author Leah Lefler 4 months ago  from Western New York I wouldn't be scared, Bree, but I would be careful with regard to tanning and excessive sun exposure. My boys are very fair and we use sunscreen with them whenever they are outside for extended periods (my 11 year old had a scare with a dysplastic mole that showed up on his back at the age of 9 and recurred, so he had to have a wide excision to remove all chance that it could come back). Everyone is different and the only real worry with having both copies of MC1R would be repeated exposure to the sun, increasing the risk of skin cancer. I'm sure you'll be fine as long as you don't sunbathe on a regular basis!  Bree 4 months ago  Im kinda scared after reading that redheads and blonde haired people are likely carriers of cancerous genes. Im the only red head in my blood related family and also the only girl who was born into my family, making me "special" so I hope there is nothing else different. Also, does anyone with medical knowledge know the percentage of red/blonde haired people that have came down with cancer is? Also, does anyone know what age it usually comes by if it is a Dominant gene?  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York The MC1R genetic mutation is carried by all races, tlew. It is also likely Cleopatra used henna as a beauty agent.  tlew 5 months ago  how was malcom x a redhead? or cleopatra?  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York It is highly likely you carry the MC1R gene, RTaylor, though only genetic testing would be definitive. My husband has similar traits and we have one child with strawberry hair (which has darkened) and one child with blond hair. Your parents may or may not have red hair, as each one would only need to be a carrier to pass on the red trait, so you could have two parents who don't display the trait. My son and I both have issues with anesthesia, though we also have Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (known for a difficulty with anesthesia), so it is hard to determine whether it is the EDS or the red hair gene causing the issues for us!  RTaylor 5 months ago  Fascinating!!  I'm curious and would like some feedback if anyone cares to assume the challenge? I'm adopted,  thus I have zero genetic history that I can share.  However, after reading all the posts, I feel somewhat confident in proclaiming that I am a "True Red" based on the following: 1) red-headed since birth, (various degrees of darkness, but always red) 2) green eyes and sensitive to sunlight 3) heavy freckling but not necessarily "pale-skinned" More "ruddy" looking. I do burn easily and my freckles seem to double if I forget sunscreen. Also have had 3 lesions removed...not melanoma,  but did have some type of cancerous cells. 4) Dx'd with SLE (systemic Lupus) at age 40. It's an auto-immune disorder that causes an increased inflammatory response. 5) This one is the worst by far...on 2 seperate occasions, I woke up during surgery!! I didn't feel pain, but I remember opening my eyes through some kind of guppy lubricant they apply apparently, and thinking...Oh s#!:#!  That's all I remember thank God...the anesthesiologist later explained to me that it was because of my "red-hair gene!" 6) For some weird reason, my body wont dissolve those "dissolvable stitches." Nobody seems to know why? I'm now wondering if this an isolated occurance, or could it be related to the gene? Ok....here's my question?  Is it reasonable to assume that I'm a carrier of the MC1R gene? Husband- brown hair, light green eyes, tans easily. Both my children have dark brown hair with heavy red tints in sunlight. Both light BLUE -eyed, scattered freckles to upper body only. Both O-neg blood type...same as me. Neither have shown evidence of problems with anesthesia thus far. 2nd question (sorry!) Any ideas on what my bio-parents had in terms of hair/eye color?? Thanks for any insight you might be willing to share. It's nice to know I'm not the only one with questions!! Best to you all....  Author Leah Lefler 5 months ago  from Western New York My son is similar, Yadira - he was born with black hair, which fell out and he had red hair until it darkened to brown. We are much farther north than Florida - but his eyes are blue/gray.  Yadira 5 months ago  Oh, I am a mess. I was born with black hair, then it turned lighter almost blond then copperish red, then red(er) and finally dark brown. I got out in the sun and I turn red, earn freckles and go back to be white again. I never get a tan (Sighs) My eyes they can change from blue to gree all in one day or stay green for many years and change into different shades of green. If I travel a bit far up north in the state of Florida where I am and the weather is cold my eyes turn blue.  Author Leah Lefler 6 months ago  from Western New York Hi Jim, is the "red spot" a patch of red hair, or is it a red spot on the skin? Red spots on the skin (macules, papules, and hemangiomas) are not indicative of carrying the recessive red hair gene. If you have a patch of red hair, then you may carry/express the recessive MC1R gene.  Jim 6 months ago  If I have a red spot on the back of my head do I carry recessive red?  Author Leah Lefler 6 months ago  from Western New York The red hair gene exists in many ethnicities, so it is not linked to "green eyes," though there are people who carry both traits at the same time. There is likely a founder effect as many of these traits (Rh negative blood type, green eyes, and red hair) are found at a higher rate in Europe and occur simultaneously in many individuals.  susan sanger 6 months ago  Interesting.  Have you cross-matched red hair, eye color, skin color? So far, the conclusions are very different:  Red hair, green eyes, extreme sensitivity to hot- cold., and RH Negative blood type?  grandma clara  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York It is interesting, Matthew. We actually had a fertile mule in the Inland Empire of California where I spent my childhood. She had two foals - they named one of the foals "Blue Moon" due to the rarity of a fertile mule!  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  ( http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fnews360.c... ) I made a an ignorant claim that, Hybrid Species are "genetic dead ends", this is an article from Wire reprinted from Quanta Magazine, that illustrates the benefit of diversity, and that being a pseudo-scientist is being wrong a lot! lol.  ( Im not sure if linking is allowed, article was found in a aggregator )  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York I agree, Matthew, that people seem to have become polarized in recent times and we must reach out to our fellow humans to stop hate and to develop relationships that prevent the formation of stereotypes. Never stop learning - this should be the human motto.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  While trying to find evidence to my argument, i ran across "Christian Forums" really getting disgusting and it just highlighted how stupid today's world is because we as a society are okay with being fed information rather then winning that information for our own good. Ignorance is the bane of Civilization, once we are complacent enough to believe what sounds good we are ignorant enough to vote out our republic.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  (Bio: I'm a US Army Infantryman, all outsides look the same when they are on the outside, and if we can eliminate hate,fear, and ignorance, then what is there left to fight over, If I can never see Death again due  to misunderstandings I will die happy)Thank you, Preconceived Notions. that was what I was trying to say. Long story short My buddy was telling me he was attracted to Red's, even though he "was" and "we are" supposed to be "disgusted by them," thats when I forgot myself and yelled "conjecture!!!, that's not science nor is it fact, It!! is based on hate stereotypes", and Preconceived notions.  In an attempt to try to correct, in what I believe a intellectual teachable moment and a literal chance to "kill" hate and ignorance, because he rebutted my argument in I believe her because she is in the medical field, even though she has not specialized nor is she a Phd. I'm like awesome, I can prove to you! or.. reference to the fact that is not common knowledge nor is it scientific. Not to mention He could talk to a Herpetologist about his hemorrhoids, but unless He has a cloaca his advice should be taken with understanding that Dr. Herp DVM. is not an expert in that field or discipline and neither is the "Expert".  Author Leah Lefler 7 months ago  from Western New York Matthew, I would first ask the question: is your initial supposition correct? Who finds red-heads unattractive?  Apart from a satirical South Park episode, I haven't heard about hate groups regarding people with red hair, though I suppose there are people who will always find someone to hate. As with all physical characteristics, there are stereotypes applied - which are often inaccurate or serve to validate a preconceived notion. Prejudice is learned and not a genetic trait.  Matthew Grauel 7 months ago  I'm, looking for information about how the "fear of gingers" propagates anecdotal conjecture. The argument: my friend said according to his Niece who purportedly works at John Hopkins for Kids, "We are genetically designed to find red-heads unattractive." My rebuttal: CONJECTURE, more specific Religious Allegory, most recently Vikings dominating Christians from the Dark Ages up until the Late Middle Ages, even surviving the renaissance as the Varangian Guard of the Byzantine Empire. We were taught to Hate and Fear Red  headed pagans, and those fears survive today as stereotypes. I have tried arguing that Hate is a subjective sociological skill, one learns to conform to to be accepted and not be cast out of the "Common People" with the "Common Idea". I tried to bring up Bears, and highlight the difference between biological response to environment and sociological response to society's common idea.  Bears evolved white fur to better hunt on the Ice, those who lived long enough to pass that mutation now propagates the mutation as a dominant, and now the likelihoods of creating white furred hunters are more likely, and a probability. Where does Social come into play? Wolves adopt dogs, Cats adopt Birds. but because they cannot reproduce, in my mind it doesn't apply; Polar Bear and Grizzly Bear are probably close enough to get a mutant like Liger or a Walfin, or a mule, but that line stops as mutants are usually born sterile. Since all Humans possess the MC1R Gene and it can be expressed by any human, and if we are programmed to hate Ginger's, then why don't we hate ourselves for being carriers? Anyone? I'm open minded so critique that crap out of me.  Author Leah Lefler 8 months ago  from Western New York There are a lot of variants, Mickie! Many people with the "red" gene don't display the phenotype if they also have dark hair, but may easily have children with lighter hair where the redness shows through. My husband was a true red-head, but became darker as an adult. He still has a red beard! My oldest boy was blond as a baby, but my youngest son had strawberry blond hair. Both boys are older now and have the same hair color (a dark blond/light brown). In the sunlight, there is still a red hint to my younger son's hair.  Author Leah Lefler 8 months ago  from Western New York My uncle has red hair and has maintained a shade of red well into his 80's! It has lightened considerably, but is definitely still red.  val smith 8 months ago  I am almost 81 years old and have never had to add dye to my hair, but over time the shade does change somewhat and I think this may be because health issues  Mickie Chaplin Boldt 9 months ago  As you stated, there are always anomolies.  My dad had very dark brown hair and light green eyes, almost black and my mom had a beautiful auburn color with brown eyes.  I am the oldest of three -- I have Strawberry Blonde and green eyes, my two bothers were medium brown hair and brown eyes. Not sure of my Dad's side way back, but the immediate family all had shades of brown hair and some with brown eyes and others blue or green.  My mom's side however, had lots of red hair.  My husband's hair is dark brown/black and brown eyes.  My son had Strawberry Blonde when little, but it turned darker, and darker brown as he got older, but he has a reddish brown beard!  Justin Hall 9 months ago  This is bizarre. I have the following alleles with regard to my MC1R gene R160W, D294H, V92M, D84E, V60L and yet I have brown hair. I had blond hair as a child and by the time I was in my mid teens it had darkened to the medium light to medium brown it is today. All I have ever found was an occasional red hair in my beard and even they were few and far in between.  Hernan 10 months ago  Red hair, as any recessive mutation can be diluted (if they reproduce at slower speed than the other hair color populations) but not extinct unless there is a pressure to supress this mutation by selection (Suppression of these people from reproduction). Maybe the % of gingers can be reduced but not eliminated.  kayeff 11 months ago  Did you just make up the "koakage" because I can't find evidence of it's truth anywhere. Akage = redhead and kawaii = cute. Where did you get the koakage idea?  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York Blond hair may contain pheomelanin, Keep It Red - it does not have to contain this form of melanin, but it certainly can have it.  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York It is very interesting to me how the beard color will remain red, even when the hair on someone's head has darkened, sbbhunt! My husband still has a very red beard, even though the hair on his head has turned a reddish brown color.  Author Leah Lefler 13 months ago  from Western New York My younger son had red hair as a toddler and it is now darker and nearly the same color as his older brother's hair (a very dark blond/light brown). It is interesting how hair color changes over time, Robert! My family ancestry is largely Irish and my husband's is British/German - my husband had very red hair.  roberttracy70@yahoo.com 13 months ago  My fathers hair was white  eyes blue when he was young , changing to nut brown later. we 3 childern all had very fair hair , changing later to brown . My mothers hair was black , green eyes .   My sons hair was ginger changed to frizy black  and  angel blue eyes  , my daughters hair is black deed green eyes  changing to dark brown  , her mother is half Welch and English  black hair deep green eyes . My parents  were Irish . one grand son half Greek has very dark hair and blue eyes , the other has light brown hair and blue eyes and an Irish mother with dark red hair and green eyes .  Funny thing red haired women facinated me when I was young and I wasent surprised when my son said he was going to marry one , even though I said nothing about my younger days .  Sbbhunt 14 months ago  Why did you not mention black and red, my father had blue black hair, so does my oldest brother, one of my brother has brown hair, 3 of us original blond, the men with red beard. My mother had red hair, my daughter was born red hair but turn into very blond  jhert 15 months ago  I have a question hopefully someone can help me answer... My mom has red hair (not auburn) and my dad has brown hair. I have blonde hair and my brother has red hair (slightly more blonde than my moms). How is this possible? I understand how my brother would have gotten his red hair if my dad is carrying a mc1r gene but how would I have blonde hair then? Could my dad be carrying a brown hair, blonde hair and mc1r gene?  keep it red 17 months ago  Okay.  I've been reading and I'm not so sure what I typed a week ago is correct because now I'm finding publications that are saying that pheomelanin IS responsible for blonde hair as well.  Some say yes, some say no.  I would like to know the truth so I'll keep reading.  My apologies to you and again, thanks for the article.  keep it red 17 months ago  Enjoyed this article with the exception of one glaring mistake.  Blonde hair does not cotain pheomelanin, only a bit of eumelanin.  As you stated above, the abscence of any pigment results in white hair, so a little eumelanin makes blonde hair.  It is this bit of eumelanin that gives it it's yellowish or blonde hue.  Blonde hair actually derives from brown hair, not red hair.  So eumelanin is responsible for black, brown, and blonde hair.  Pheomelanin is responsible for all red hair only.  Other than that, great article.  I enjoyed it.  Author Leah Lefler 2 years ago  from Western New York Isn't it interesting, Dolores? One of my children is blond and the other has red hair, and my red-head is very resistant to local anesthetics.  Author Leah Lefler 2 years ago  from Western New York The resistance to anesthetics is a very interesting side effect to the MC1R gene, mbwalz! My boys also have Ehlers Danlos syndrome, which causes resistance to local anesthetics. They have a double whammy, and our trips to the dentist are usually rather difficult (as you can imagine)!  Dolores Monet 2 years ago  from East Coast, United States As the mother of two red headed children, I used to think they were just whiners when they complained of pain. Now I know that they actually are more sensitive! I feel like a hardhearted mama! There seems to be a problem with electricity as well. I never knew two people who complained of electrical shocks like the two of them. Of course, they were such gorgeous kids. There is nothing more adorable than a red-headed child!  MaryBeth Walz 2 years ago  from Maine Thanks for the in depth info about us redheads! I just wrote a hub about our pain and the things that are being discovered through the mutation of the MC1R gene. It could lead, if there's enough interest and funding, in new classes of analgesics. In the mean time, we just get to ask for more lidacaine instead! Voted up and shared!  Author Leah Lefler 4 years ago  from Western New York Perhaps people are jealous of your red hair, Jill?  Jill 4 years ago  People are jealous  of me  I don't know why I'm almost 60  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York That is a good response! I love red hair and I'm glad one of my kids has it (though it is much less obvious now)!  Crystal Tatum 5 years ago  from Georgia Perhaps the best answer, as her parents finally taught my cousin to respond when asked where she got that red hair, is "God gave it to me"!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York The genetics is interesting to me, Crystal Tatum - it is very possible to carry the red gene and have dark hair - when a child gets two copies of the genetic mutation, they will have red or orange hair. The actual genetics are a bit more complicated than that, of course - there are many different mutations and some are have more penetrance  (i.e. "stronger") than others. I have brown hair (blond as a child) and my husband has red hair - we have one son who has blond/brown hair and one son who has reddish hair.. though the red has become less obvious as he has gotten older and his hair has darkened!  Crystal Tatum 5 years ago  from Georgia The genetics bit was very well written but over my head. I do know that I have a cousin with a brown haired father and black haired mother who came out with orange hair. Apparently there was red hair on both sides of the family back a coulpe of genrations. She's never liked it much ....people were always coming up to her in stores and rubbing her hair! It's hard to believe how barbaric ancient civilizations could be. You did a great job with this hub. Voting up and interesting.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I love genetics, pinkhawk - many genes have an effect beyond the obvious phenotype of having red hair. The increased skin cancer risk is simply the direct effect of the type of melanin the "red" genes express. Eumelanin protects against the sun's radiation; pheomelanin does not protect the skin.  pinkhawk 5 years ago  from Pearl of the Orient such an interesting topic! ^_^...thanks for sharing!...there's a reason for everything, wondering about its other function...  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York My five year old had very strawberry blond hair as a toddler, Tiffany, and now he is developing darker hair. I suspect he has a "weak" red hair gene or he is only a carrier of the gene. Still, his skin is extremely fair and we go through bucket loads of sunscreen each summer! My husband is a classic red head, and is very susceptible to skin damage from the sun.  tiffany delite 5 years ago  from united states thank you for this very interesting hub. my bestie has red hair and freckles and is so sensitive to the sun just like you said in this article! my hair was lighter when i was younger, and it has gotten darker as i have gotten older...that must mean my genes are slow starters...yes? lol. blessings!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Redheads are a big part of my life, too - my husband is a redhead and my younger son was strawberry blond. His hair gets darker in the winter, but gets redder in the summer with exposure to the sun. As a toddler and preschooler, he had very reddish hair. My older son was blond as a baby and has brown hair now. You definitely have a life filled with redheads, PaisleeGal!  Pat Materna 5 years ago  from Memphis, Tennessee, USA Well this is a fascinating read. Redheads have always played a part in my life. While my hair is mousy brown I've always loved redhair.  My first love when I was 8 was redheaded. Then when I was 14 my first huge crush was a redhead. I finally married a redhead (not the same guy). My matron of honor at my wedding was redheaded. I was hoping one of my sons would be redheaded like their dad but they ended up like me with brown hair. Two yrs ago I thot my grandson was going to have redhair (his mom was a strawberry blond as a child) but alas so far his hair is not red but is a honey color and when in the sun you can see streaks of reddish.  So redheads have always been a big part of my life  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York It is fascinating, isn't it, Deborah? Since it is recessive, it really does take two carriers to have a child with red hair. My son has strawberry blond hair that has now darkened (but returns to its reddish hue during the summer months). He has the freckles to match, so we go through a lot of sunscreen!  Deborah Neyens 5 years ago  from Iowa Interesting! I'm a red head but never knew the genetics behind it. I'm told my red-headed, Irish great grandmother was bummed that none of her children or grandchildren were red heads, but after she passed, several of us came along in my generation and the next generation.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Current science disputes the theory - DNA has been sequenced from Neanderthal remains and the genetic sequencing shows an entirely different mutation in the MC1R gene than his found in humans - so the likelihood of a "genetic flow" from Neanderthals to homo sapiens is very low.  Tamara Wilhite 5 years ago  from Fort Worth, Texas What do you think of the theory that due to the age of the red haired gene, that it came from Neandertals?  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I worry about the skin cancer risk, too, Kelly. We recently went to the beach and we used a lot of sunscreen on our boys to keep them from getting sunburned. I suppose forewarning is foreknowledge, and all we can do is use sunscreen and monitor for any skin changes!  Kelly Pittman 5 years ago  from Walker, LA My son is a red head - Or he likes to say it's orange. (He's 7 now)   My husband and I both have dark brown hair and our daughter has light brown hair as I did as a child.  Both sets of my husband and I's grandmothers were red heads so we assume we carried on something, though when someone asked our son, "Where do you get that red hair from?"  He replies, "It grows outta my head."  I do worry about the cancer risk as my grandmother died from a rare case of melanoma.   Nice work on this hub.  Very informative. Voted Up and Interesting.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York My mom had auburn hair, but my sister and I didn't pick up the red shade. I was tickled when Nolan's hair turned a beautiful strawberry blond (from my husband's side). The hair in our family tends to get darker with age, though, so it hides the red! Thanks for the comment, teaches!  Dianna Mendez 5 years ago  My mother had red hair but none her children received this blessing. I had tints of red in my hair,but this was the closest anyone came to red hair. I have to say my mother had the most beautiful color of red, it was a darker shade and thick.  Thanks for posting, I like your matrix on the dominant colors.  Voted up.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Hyphenbird, it is interesting how hair color changes with age. Sometimes the pigment producing cells produce more eumelanin as a person ages, but the gene for red hair is, of course, still there. The red color is just harder to see because it is masked by the darker hair. There are many variants of the MC1R gene that cause varying shades of red, and some are "weak" red genes that don't give the classic "carrot top" color. My husband's hair has darkened considerably, but he still has the freckles and his beard hair is very red!  Brenda Barnes 5 years ago  from America-Broken But Still Beautiful You did a great job and a lot of research on this Hub. My dad was a redhead and so was I as a child. Alas, my hair turned dark as I aged. By the time I was fifteen, it was dark brown. My mom had coal black hair so it was natural to be confused. lol I really was fascinated by your research and commend you.  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York I did simplify the idea, of course - there are many polymorphisms of the MC1R gene that cause red hair, so one parent could easily carry one variant while another parent carries a different allele. And then there is complete vs. partial penetrance, etc. Still, it gives a general idea of how two brown haired parents might end up with a little redhead! Thanks for your comment, DFiduccia  DFiduccia 5 years ago  from Las Vegas Leahlefler, I haven’t seen a Punnett square since I retired from teaching. It brings back memories of Mendel and dominant/ submissive traits. You really got into this hub—great presentation. Voted up—DF  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York Vanderleelie, there were many myths about redheads that fueled hatred and misunderstanding. Some in the Middle Ages believed that children with red hair were conceived while the mother was going through a menstrual cycle. In earlier times, it was believed to be a sign of witchcraft or an unlucky "mark." I am certainly glad my family lives in modern times!  Vanderleelie 5 years ago  This is interesting information.  The fact that redheads are more sensitive to pain is perhaps one reason why they were considered "different" in other time periods. Voted up!  Author Leah Lefler 5 years ago  from Western New York The MC1R gene is here to stay - the same rumors circulated about blond hair going extinct. My younger son's hair is getting darker and the red isn't as obvious in the winter. In the summer, though, he has the most wonderful red hair.  Kimberly Schimmel 5 years ago  from North Carolina, USA I'm so glad red hair is not going extinct.  Hubby and I have red-haired great-aunts and I have a redheaded sister and neice.  Only one of our 6 kids is a redhead, but I'm hoping they all carry the gene on to future generations.       About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others. Sign In Join STEM Genetics & Evolution Zoology Math Chemistry Electrical Engineering Medical Science Marine Biology Computer Science Entomology Geology Botany Microbiology Climatology & Meteorology Mycology Astronomy Ecology Physics Paleontology Show All Categories Connect with us About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.  working                           --    HOME   Fashion & Lifestyle  Health & Beauty  Entertainment  DIY  NEWS                                            Fashion & Lifestyle  Health & Beauty  Entertainment  DIY  NEWS              Best Perfumes For Men That Can Drive Women Wild                         Tips About Haircuts, Face Makeup & Fitness Goals                         Secret Makeup Tips For Hooded Eyes                         Interesting Facts About World’s Different Countries                         25 Wedding Dresses And Cakes Ideas Of 2018                           Shocking Strange & Psychological Facts About Dreams & Sleep                         Benefits Of Citrus Limetta – Infographic                         The Adverse Effects Of SecondHand Smoke – Infographic                         Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                         How To Cure Strep Throat ? (12 Simple Home Remedies)                           Harry Potter Fun Facts & Behind The Scenes Secrets                         Fun Facts About Christmas, Easter & Valentines Day                         List Of Random, Interesting & Useless Facts                         Classy & Hot Tattoos For Women                         Mark Calway vs. Dead Man – Infographic                           Tips About Haircuts, Face Makeup & Fitness Goals                         Simple Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Under Eye Bags                         How To Cure Strep Throat ? (12 Simple Home Remedies)                         Cute Prom Makeup, Updos & Hairstyles Ideas                         Awesome Cute Nail Designs Ideas                           Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                         BUTTERFLY OF STANFORD, 23.                         Gerald Rogers Divorce                         Famous Celebrities With Autism                                        Shocking Facts About Redheads      Posted By John David,            Updated On April 3, 2018                                “Redheads” is a term used for the people who are born with natural red hair. In British English, the term “Ginger” is used to describe red-headed people. It is the rarest hair color in the world.Here Is The List Of 30 Shocking Facts About Redheads You Never Knew of !  Facts About Redheads:   30  Combination of Red Hair and Brown Eyes    Image via thehunt.com  All redheads do not have blue eyes. Blue and red combination is rather rare, a common combination with red hair are brown eyes.       29  Redheads Are Mutants    Image via royalchatter.com  Redheads are more often mutants. The recessive MC1R gene that is in charge of the red hair, MC1R, is a genetic mutation. Genetic variations in MC1R gene are common in people with red hair.   28  Rare One    Image via gerovanna.co  Redheads are incredibly rare. Just 2% of the world’s population has red hair which comes to around 140 million. There are more redheads in Western Europe than anywhere else in the world which is 13%. So we can say that they are majestic unicorns.       27  Redheads Are Royals    Image via gerovanna.co  Elizabeth I of England & Queen Victoria were redheaded. Nowadays, Prince Harry is also a natural redhead.   26  Rate of Graying Hair is Slow    Image via huffingtonpost.co.uk  Red hair does not turn to gray as fast as other hair colors; so, you don’t have to get worry about going gray. Because this is the reason they are lucky to.       25  Redheads Are Left-handed    Image via bustle.com  According to research, it is proved that Redheads are mostly left-handed than any other hair color.         Shocking Facts About Redheads 4.8 (95%) 1052 votes         1  2  3  4  5           John David  John David  Show More            SUBSCRIBE TO OUR TOP MAILING LIST         Email Address     Website url                   GOING VIRAL                          Best Rock Bands Of All Time                                 Hilarious & Funny Memes That Will Make You ROFL                                 Exotic Low Maintenance Cool Pets That Are Legal To Own                                 How To Stop Loving Someone Who Does Not Love You…                                 A 2 Z Types of Friends In Our Life –…                                 38 Facts About Universe That Will Boggle Your Mind                                    Join the Conversation Cancel Reply     Will not be published.  Website  Anti-Spam Quiz: What is banana color, yellow or red?         41 comments            gemma louise  2 years ago  Reply    I am a natural redhead too, I love this article and I am always open to learn new things about redheads. My name is Gemma Louise Roberts.               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Hi Gemma, nice to meet you. thanks for stopping by and giving the introduction.                 Courtney Mings  2 years ago  Reply    I am a redhead with bright sky blue eyes and I am very proud of it. My name is Courtney mings 😃               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Hey courtney,  thanks, would you like to share your social profile ?                 Lorelle  1 year ago  Reply    Hello, as far as redheads being more hot-headed, I definitely agree that it’s because we are teased so much as kids and eventually we just bite whoever pokes fingers at us. Kids can be very mean to kids who stand out. Both my son and daughter were born with red hair, Keegan has blue eyes and Tanya has got dark brown. Mine is also blue and although I’m almost 51, I have practically no grey hair yet. Lucky for us!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Thanks Lorelle, I appreciate your input.               Cade  1 year ago  Reply    Heck yeah red hair don’t care , and yeah I do have red hair and dark blue with a little bit of green in my eyes and my hair is really dark red I love seeing other “Gingers” it makes my day.                 Aris  1 year ago  Reply    I am a redhead with grey eyes! Only 1% have my genetic make-up!               Alison  1 year ago  Reply    Same with me!!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Thank you. Do you mind sharing your social profile ?               Jake  12 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead with deep blue eyes and a apparently deathly stare.                 Cody douglas McMahon  1 year ago  Reply    This is great. I was wondering about the pain thing and anesthetics i knew it!! Thanks guys  red head and always been proud of it!!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Yes they do!                 Erin  1 year ago  Reply    I have a son with red hair and brown eyes. I could not ask for a more thoughtful, caring young man. He is very unique in that he likes what he likes and doesn’t care what anyone says about it. He’d give the shirt off his back to anyone. Once Cory is your friend he’s your friend for life! I wouldn’t trade him for anything!               wordsiseek  1 year ago  Reply    Nice to know about Cory 🙂                 Jake  12 months ago  Reply    Redhead nation!!! Natural redhead here! I have a older brother and sister and both of them have red hair also. Trio!!!               Robyn  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a red head with green eyes. My hair is red with a natural blonde highlight. My eyes are in between emerald green and solid dark green. I also have freckles under my eyes.               Kristy36  10 months ago  Reply    I am a natural redhead with bluegreen eyes I am left handed a twin and waa born to a beautiful blond with blue eyes and a jandsome brunette guy with very dark blue eyes Im proud that they created me and my mom passed away two years ago and I miss her dearly she was an ash blond but she was gorgeous I get my beautful eyes from her!!               Austin  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a natural redhead and both of my parents have brown hair, I guess they both carried the gene for red hair. I get bullied at school for my hair color. Idc it doesn’t bother me               Isabella  10 months ago  Reply    I’m a redhead <3               Kaylee sohn  9 months ago  Reply    I have red hair and blue eyes               Wesley  8 months ago  Reply    My name is Wes Long and I have red hair and central heterochromia this my eyes are blue,gray and yellow/gold so I am a pretty rare mutant altogether.               Isaac Beam  7 months ago  Reply    I’m a natural ginger with blue eyes. Reading this made me feel special. I loved it!               Carr  7 months ago  Reply    This isn’t true,here a scientist gives a very detailed genetic explanation on a science page for young people,to the question a young woman asked,Why Is Red Hair And Brown Eyes so Uncommon.  madsci.org/posts/archives/2001-06/993598918.Ge.r.html               wordsiseek  7 months ago  Reply    Yes, red hair with brown eyes combination is uncommon but when we compare it with red hair & blue eyes combination, it is more common.                 Terry Kraft  7 months ago  Reply    Ginger with blue eyes. Hated it growing up. I think male gingers get a bad rap for being odd looking, but I’ve grown into a unique looking ginger that turns heads wherever I go. Proud now.               Rafaela  6 months ago  Reply    ❤❤❤❤               Tayla  6 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead. I have blue eyes that change to green sometimes. Im.. Uhm well lets just say I’m weird xD               Liam  6 months ago  Reply    I’m a red head and I can say we are spawns of Satan. One day we shall all come and devour your soul.               Paisley  5 months ago  Reply    Wow, I heard redheads were rarer, being one myself, but I had no idea that my blue eyes were also thrown in the category of rare.               Sandra Freed  4 months ago  Reply    You actually have the same chance as any other person, but since red hair and blue eyes are both rare, chances to be born with both are low, I’m red hair and hazel BTW.                 Ella Pazare  4 months ago  Reply    Ohh I have red hair and green eyes❤💚               Sandra Freed  4 months ago  Reply    I have red hair, and this article has both right and wrong information (at least the wrong things are not true for me).  The real reason Blue is rare with redheads is because it is a rare color in general, and when combined with the rarity of red hair, it is one of the least common combinations.  Even if the second “fact” is true, don’t just call us mutants, we get offended.  The one about redheads being left handed is FALSE, your strong hand is the hand you learned to use most, I’m right handed, and in fact lost my left hand.  I am more sensitive to the cold than my sister, who is blonde.  This might not be true for all reds, but I do consider myself to be a hot-head.  About being easy to find, it all depends on the size of the crowd and ratio of redheads to others.  AND WHO THE HECK THOUGHT WE WERE VAMPIRES?!               The Ginger Philes  3 months ago  Reply    These are all true. Especially the last one.               Presley  3 months ago  Reply    I am a redhead with frosty blue eyes and i could never not be happy               Kj  3 months ago  Reply    I’m right handed is that rare               April  2 months ago  Reply    Redheads have more allergies than any other hair color.               Alec Hengstman  2 months ago  Reply    Hi, i have red hair and brown eyes. For people who cant stand it if someone calls you ginger, i have a tip: make a contest about who had the most original joke about redheads. It is just very funny what you here sometimes. There is this bully who is on the top of the list without knowing it. Its just funny, try it out. Also, am i the only one who sweats and gets a red face although i am not embarresed at all? Btw, good facts               Robert Rudd  2 months ago  Reply    Hey there, I am a redhead with green eyes and I feel shut out of the world due to my gingerness and always have. It’s nice to see that people like me care and respect being unique. I mean really why is it that when I date a red haired girl everyone assumes she is my sister, it’s wrong and I want to stop this bias behavior the world has toward us. Thank you.               Abi McCartney  1 month ago  Reply    Wow, what a great article. I have long ginger hair, freckles, blue eyes and I’m left handed. I have very sensitive skin and teeth! My sense of humour and the amount that I laugh is often commented on. I love being around people and embrace the light hearted ridicule that I receive on a daily basis for being so different. I’m not hot headed, more laid back if anything. However I’m very passionate, loving and caring. I was very fourtunate not to be picked on at school, I guess I was a cool kid and got on with everyone (I’m 30 by the way). I wouldn’t suggest I am proud to be a red head, just grateful to be loved for being me.               Malachai Smith  4 weeks ago  Reply    I’m a redheaded teen guy and I am not just a red-head ginger. I am on the full-on-fire-headed level and I have often been made fun of for it. To find that I am not the only one and that we can actually be appreciated is a huge blessing. Too often, I have been mocked and insulted in my hallways at school. So, to know that they are being stupid is awesome. My heart and my soul are so happy to find this community of red-heads.              24 Sensitivity to Hot and Cold   According to some studies, a side effect for redheads is that they are more sensitive to hot and cold pain than any other hair color.  23 Ginger King and Queen in Netherlands   Each September, the Netherlands holds a two-day celebration out of appreciation for redheads around the world which is called Roodharigendag in Dutch. The party includes crowning the ginger King and Queen.  22 Types of Redheads   There is a variety of red hair than you think. Red hair comes in so many different colors (Burnt Orange, Copper, Blonde, Ginger), sizes (Short and long) and shapes as other hair colors.  21 Behavior with Redheads in Past   They have been treated awfully in the past. Hitler was against the intermarriage of redheads believing that they produce more devil children.  20 Bee's attraction Towards Redheads   According to some studies bees are more attracted to redheads than any other hair color, probably it’s because they seem like sweet red flowers because of their red crown of hair.  19 Redheads are Hot-headed   Redheads are also known as hot-headed. However, there is no confirmation of this being valid. It might be just because of their red hair color they are called hot headed in a sense of joke.  18 Disney Princesses with Redhead   We also have redhead Disney Princesses like Merida and Ariel. It means that red hair color is too cool because, Ariel and Merida also want to be a part of the ginger world, but you cannot have them because they are too beautiful for this earth.  17 Easy to Found   Redheads never get lost in the crowd because of their red crown of hair which makes them unique from others which are cool.  16 Hardest Shade to Dye   According to a study, it is proved that Red is the hardest shade to dye your hair and also difficult to maintain it. So to be a redhead is a benefit.  15 Sense of Humor   Redheads have an impressive sense of humor because they grow up by teased for their ginger hair color.  14 Lower Rate of Prostate Cancer   To be a redhead is beneficial for men because according to some studies red headed men are 54 percent less likely to create prostate cancer. It means a lot for ginger men.  13 Redheads are Vampires   According to early Greeks believes Redheads were Vampires , and they also turn into vampires after they have died.  12 Less Hair Strands   Redheads have fewer hair than brunettes or blondes. According to research on an average, brunettes have 140,000 strands of hair; blondes have 110,000 strands of hair and redheads have 90,000 which is too less, but red hair is thicker than any other hair color.  11 Larger Dose of Anesthesia   In surgeries, it's been recommended that a few redheads require 20 percent larger doses of anesthesia as compared to a regular patient. Research proved this that redhead needs more anesthesia than people having other hair colors.  10 Absorption and Making of Vitamin D   They are more efficient at making Vitamin D . Redheads have the low amount of eumelanin in their body that is why they cannot absorb the required level of Vitamin D. In any case, they compensate for this by creating their particular Vitamin D when they are present in low-light condition.  So, they do not need as much sunlight to get what they need.  9 Concept of Christmas Communities   Christian communities considered a mark of the devil were birthmarks, patches and the major one was red hair. Many Christian communities believed that Judas was a redheaded textual proof from the Bible.  This belief really inspired some painters to paint Judas with red hair.  8 Aristotle Theory   Aristotle had some issues with redheads. Aristotle himself reported for the once saying "The reddish are of bad character" which shows that he hates redheads.  7 Resistant to Pain Blocker   Redheads are more resistant to pain blocker. Redhead gene releases a chemical called pheomelanin, which is the cause of blocks the brain’s receptivity/acceptance to pain.  6 Redheads are Genetic   Families can carry redhead gene for generations without knowing it. So, it is might possible that there could be some redhead gene inside you that can surprise you for being a redhead’s parent.  5 Temperature Sensors   Redheads are good at detecting changes in temperature than a person having any other hair color so, we can call them Temperature sensor.  4 Extinction of Redhead   According to research found by Britain DNA has found that more than 40 percent of the population carries the MC1R gene that is responsible for red hair . Redheads are not going to extinct because families have MC1R gene without knowing it.  3 Sensitive Teeth   According to some studies, redheads have more sensitive teeth. Redheads also bruise easily than those who have any other hair color.  2 Marilyn Monroe   Marilyn Monroe was also a redheaded. She was American actress and model. She was famous for her natural red hair.  1 Fall in Love with Redhead   Finally, if you look into redhead’s eye longer than 10 seconds, you will fall in love.  Redheads are always misunderstood and mistrust in the history. Previously, the people with red hair were considered to be an evil one, even nowadays many of us are having a lot of misconceptions about them.  Being a redhead is not an abnormality. Instead, it’s a blessing. If anyone of you has a redhead, then proud of it. We anticipate that you had an enjoyable journey while going through the article, and you get a lot to know about the redhead. Please let us know about your valuable feedback.      Trending Now                 Best Perfumes For Men That Can Drive Women Wild                               Exotic Low Maintenance Cool Pets That Are Legal To Own                               Hottest Celebrities With Herpes & STDs                       Advertisement   SUBSCRIBE TO OUR TOP MAILING LIST         Email Address     Website url                GOING VIRAL                 Hilarious & Funny Memes That Will Make You ROFL                               Famous Celebrities With Autism                               Largest Birds In The World                               Unbelievable Facts About The Human Body                                    Affiliate Earning Disclosure   WordsISeek.com receives the commission from sales made through the products, we recommend from Amazon.com. So, Words I Seek is the participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program which is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide means for the sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.      Key Pages Home  About Us  Contact Us     Key Pages Advertise With Us  Privacy Policy  Terms and Conditions            Back to top    © 2018 Wordsiseek.com                                        