Breaking News Health + Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram Having older brothers increases men's likelihood of being gay By Jen Christensen , CNN Updated 6:42 AM ET, Tue December 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED The science of sexuality Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The science of sexuality  01:07 Story highlights Scientists say mothers who have more than one boy had higher concentrations of a certain protein Earlier studies have noticed that gay men often have older brothers (CNN) If you're a guy with an older brother, there's an increased chance you're gay. Scientists have noticed this pattern in previous research, but now they think they have a biological explanation as to why, and it starts long before birth. The results were published in the journal PNAS on Monday.  The researchers say that if their findings can be replicated, we may know at least one of the biological reasons some men are gay. Many factors may determine someone's sexual orientation,  but in this case, researchers noticed a pattern that may be linked to something that happens in the womb . The phenomenon is related to a protein linked to the Y chromosome (which women do not have) that is important to male brain development. LGBT Rights Milestones Fast Facts Researchers think it's possible that when a woman gets pregnant with her first boy, this Y-linked protein gets into her bloodstream. The mother's body recognizes the protein as a foreign substance, and her immune system responds , creating antibodies. If enough of these antibodies build up in the woman's body and she gets pregnant with another a boy, they can cross the placental barrier and enter the brain of the second male fetus. Read More "That may alter the functions in the brain , changing the direction of how the male fetus may later develop their sense of attraction," said study author Anthony Bogaert, a Canadian psychologist and professor in the departments of psychology and community health sciences at Brock University. Earlier research has shown that the more older brothers a boy has, the more of a chance that boy will be attracted to men. A 2006 study showed that with each brother, the chance that a man will be gay goes up by about a third, but the researchers didn't determine why that was. Bogaert and his co-authors tested a small group of 142 women and 12 men ages 18 to 80 and found a higher concentration of antibodies to the protein, known as NLGN4Y , in blood samples from women than from men. They found the highest concentration of antibodies to the protein in women with gay younger sons who had older brothers, compared with women who had no sons or who had given birth to only heterosexual boys. Sun, sex and sculpted timber: How architecture shaped Fire Island Pines The study builds on research Bogaert and his co-authors have been exploring for more than 20 years. Since their initial research that noted the trend, other research -- although not all studies -- have detected the phenomenon, even across cultures . One found that a man's chances of being gay increased even if he was raised apart from his older brother. Researchers did not see a similar pattern in families with adopted brothers , so scientists started to think there must be a maternal developmental explanation. The research does not give  a biological explanation for why some men may be bisexual or may not be attracted to anyone at all, nor can it give a biological explanation for gay only children , gay oldest sons or women who are attracted to women. J. Michael Bailey , a professor in the Department of Psychology at Northwestern University, thinks the latest research is important. "It is significant, and I believe science granting agencies should put a high priority into additional research to see if this is true," he said. Bailey was not involved in the new study but has worked on studies that have found genetic factors that may explain some differences in sexual orientations. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter . Bailey's latest paper, published this month in the journal Nature Research, looked at people's genomes and found several regions  with single-letter DNA changes that were more common among gay men than straight men and may be relevant to the development of sexual orientation. Bailey believes this new study may be even more significant than general genetic findings if the findings can be replicated. "Our studies only show that there may be genes that matter in sexual orientation," he said. "It is not like this study, that shows there is a potential specific mechanism by which sexual orientation may have changed prenatally. This is important work and fascinating if it proves to be true." Clarification: A previous version of this story referred to higher concentrations of the protein instead of higher concentrations of antibodies to the proteins when describing the findings of the study. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                    Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely .   skip to main content                     Toggle navigation       Gallup       What We Do      Close menu      Our Services      Exceptional Workplaces  Create an environment where employees and teams excel.       Employee Engagement    Strengths    Culture    Analytics-Based Hiring    Well-Being    Leadership Development    Diversity & Inclusion    Performance Management    Workforce Analytics          Advanced Analytics  Make accurate decisions to ensure long-term success.       World Poll    Gallup Panel    U.S. Daily Tracking    Gallup Analytics    Business-to-Business    Customer Analytics          CliftonStrengths  Boost performance by maximizing what your employees do best.       For Individuals    For Managers    For Organizations    For Education    How It Works    CliftonStrengths 34 Themes    Builder Initiative          Education  Drive high engagement and performance at your institution.       K-12 Education    Higher Education    Research Partners    Gallup-Purdue Index    CliftonStrengths for Students    Talent-Based Hiring    Gallup Student Poll           Featured Solution      Gallup Access  Manage your workforce through a dynamic online platform.         More from Gallup      News  Read about the attitudes and behaviors of the world's 7 billion citizens.               Reports    Books    Courses & Workshops    Events             View All Services & Solutions       Who We Are  Locations  Careers  Store        Search                Toggle navigation      Overview  Business   Business  Advanced Analytics  B2B  CliftonStrengths  Customer Engagement  Employee Engagement  Leadership  Marketplace  Workplace  Gallup Business Journal  Chairman's Blog    Politics   Politics  Foreign Affairs  Government  The Presidency  Presidential Job Approval Center    World   World  Americas  Asia Pacific  Europe  Middle East & North Africa  Sub-Saharan Africa    Education   Education  Higher Education  K-12    Social & Policy Issues   Social & Policy Issues  Abortion  Crime  Environment  Guns  Healthcare  Immigration  LGBT  Marijuana  Millennials  Race Relations  Taxes  Terrorism  Women  Gallup Vault  Polling Matters    Well-Being   Well-Being  Chronic Disease  Drugs & Alcohol  Health Habits  Health Insurance    Economy   Economy  Entrepreneurship  Personal Finance  Retirement  Small Business    Blogs & Podcast   The Chairman's Blog  Gallup Blog  Gallup Vault  Methodology Blog  Polling Matters  Gallup Podcast      Sign In  Subscribe  About Gallup and Our Services  Access Log In               October 8, 2002    Print  Share on Twitter  Share on Facebook  Share on LinkedIn  Share via Email      What Percentage of the Population Is Gay?  by Jennifer Robison,  Contributing Editor       In his 1948 book, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male ,
Alfred Kinsey shocked the world by announcing that 10% of the male
population is gay. A 1993 Janus Report estimated that nine percent
of men and five percent of women had more than "occasional"
homosexual relationships. The 2000 U.S. Census Bureau found that
homosexual couples constitute less than 1% of American households.
The Family Research Report says "around 2-3% of men, and 2% of
women, are homosexual or bisexual." The National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force estimates three to eight percent of both sexes. So who's
right -- what percentage of the population is homosexual?  It may be that no one will ever know for sure. To some people,
homosexuality is a matter of perception and definition.
Furthermore, many people have trouble admitting their homosexuality
to themselves, much less to a researcher. But when Gallup asked
Americans for their best estimate of the American gay and lesbian
population, the results made all the figures mentioned above look
conservative.  Every Fifth Person -- at Least  In August 2002*, Gallup asked Americans, in an open-ended
format, to estimate the percentage of American men and the
percentage of American women who are homosexual. The average
estimates were that 21% of men are gay and 22% of women are
lesbians. In fact, roughly a quarter of the public thinks more than
25% of men and 25% of women are homosexual. It should be pointed
out, too, that many Americans (at least one in six) could not give
an estimate.  Male respondents tend to give lower estimates of both the male
and female homosexual population than female respondents do. The
average estimates among male respondents are that 16% of men and
21% of women are homosexual. Among female respondents, the average
estimates are that 26% of men and 23% of women are homosexual.
Somewhat interestingly, both sexes believe there are more
homosexuals in the opposite sex than in their own sex.  Portrayals in Pop Culture  Before the 1980s, the few representations of homosexuality in
popular culture tended to consist of potentially dangerous social
deviants (think Norman Bates in Psycho ). Since then,
however, the portrayal of gay characters in pop culture have become
far more numerous and mostly positive. That growing representation
may have spurred growing acceptance -- and inflated population
estimates. In the last 10 years, the number of Americans saying
they feel homosexuality should be considered an acceptable
alternative lifestyle has gone from 38% (June 1992) to 51% (May
2002).  "Seeing ourselves reflected positively encourages gay people to
come out," said Cathy Renna, news media director for the Gay &
Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD). "And when people know
real gay men and lesbians it increases their level of understanding
and acceptance." If you doubt that Ellen, Rosie and others have had
an effect on Americans' acceptance of homosexuality, consider this
-- MTV and Showtime are about to launch a cable channel directed at
the homosexual market. They estimate that gays and lesbians make up
6.5% of television's audience.  Key Points  Whether increased acceptance of homosexuality has led to an
upsurge in the number of positive media portrayals of gay
characters or vice versa, one result seems to be that Americans now
tend to overestimate the gay population in America. While most
expert estimates place America's homosexual population at 10% or
less, Americans tend to guess that the number is higher, around
20%.  *Results based on telephone interviews with 489 (for those
estimating percentages of lesbian women) and 518 (for those
estimating percentages of gay men) conducted May 6-9, 2002. For
results based on the total sample, one can say with 95% confidence
that the maximum margin of sampling error is ±5%.       Get Articles in Related Topics:  Religion and Social Trends      Subscribe to receive weekly Gallup News alerts. Never miss our latest insights.  Sign Up       Recommended    In Depth: Topics A to Z  Gay and Lesbian Rights  Do you think gay or lesbian relations between consenting adults should or should not be legal? As you may know, there has been considerable discussion in the news regarding the rights of homosexual men and women. In general, do you think homosexuals should or should not have equal rights in terms of job opportunities? Do you feel that homosexuality should be considered an acceptable alternative lifestyle or not?   Mar 18, 2003  Teens on Homosexuality: Nature or Nurture?  The question of nature or nurture stands at the very center of many complex issues. Why, for instance, do some children perform better on standardized tests than others do? What causes some Americans to be overweight, while others never gain an ounce? Nowhere is the uncertainty of nature versus nurture more widely discussed than in issues surrounding human sexuality. What do teens think about the possible causes of homosexuality?   Aug 22, 2002  New York Times Policy Focuses Attention on Homosexual Civil Unions  Americans remain slightly more likely to oppose, rather than favor, formalized civil unions between gay and lesbian partners. Support for legal same-sex unions is highest among Americans living on the East and West coasts, among Democrats, among those with higher levels of education, and among younger generations. The issue was recently launched back into the news with The New York Times' decision to include commitment ceremony announcements for gay and lesbian partners along with its traditional wedding announcements in its Sunday paper.       Related News   Jul 2, 2002  Same-Sex Parenting: Does Public Back Rosie?    Feb 19, 2002  Acceptance of Homosexuality: A Youth Movement          Report  Why Higher Ed?  According to the latest Strada-Gallup report, 58% of U.S. adults choose to pursue higher education to get a good job.        Business Journal Apr 4, 2018  4 (More) Ways Banks Can Win and Keep Millennial Customers  Learn how banks can optimize their channel experiences to align them with millennials' expectations.        Hot Topics   Trade  Syria  Immigration  Gun Control  Sexual Harassment  North Korea             October 8, 2002   Gallup  http://news.gallup.com/poll/6961/what-percentage-population-gay.aspx  Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A +1 202.715.3030              Our Company   About Gallup  Locations  George Gallup  Methodology Center  Senior Scientists & Advisers    Topics   Business  Politics  World  Education  Social & Policy Issues  Well-Being  Economy  Blogs  Trends A-Z    More From Gallup   Gallup.com  Exceptional Workplaces  Advanced Analytics  CliftonStrengths  Gallup Access  News  Reports  Books  Courses & Workshops  Events  Shop    Contact Us   Careers  Media Inquiries  Gallup Speakers  Get In Touch  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn  YouTube         Copyright © 2018 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.   Copyright © 2016 Gallup, Inc.  All rights reserved. Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ, Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer, Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc.     Privacy Statement  Legal                                                                                                                                                                               hard data Having Older Brothers Might Increase a Man's Odds of Being Gay It's long been thought that something must happen within the womb. SHARE TWEET Justin Lehmiller Feb 13 2018, 5:00pm Joshua Stitt/Unsplash Why are some people attracted to the opposite sex, whereas others are attracted to the same sex? Scientists have long been puzzled by this question. Although they have developed numerous working theories over the years, definitive evidence has been elusive. However, one long-standing theory just became way more credible.  One of the most robust findings recorded by scientists studying the origins of sexual orientation is something called the fraternal birth order effect . This refers to the idea that the more older brothers a man has, the greater his odds of being gay. However, only biological brothers seem to matter here—there’s no established link for older sisters, adopted brothers, or step-siblings.  Why is that? It has long been thought that something must happen inside the womb the first time a woman carries a male fetus that ultimately affects the development of subsequent male fetuses. Scientists have speculated that perhaps there is some immune reaction taking place inside the mother—specifically, maybe carrying a male fetus leads women to develop certain antibodies that stick around.  This theory, known as the maternal immune hypothesis, makes a lot of intuitive sense. A fetus of the other sex carries foreign substances (also known as antigens) that a women’s body has never seen before—substances that may directly enter her bloodstream during childbirth, thereby stimulating production of antibodies.  More from Tonic: If women are indeed making such antibodies, there’s good reason to believe they could potentially affect a future male fetus, given that products from the mother’s immune system are not only capable of entering the amniotic sac in which fetuses develop, but they can also pass the fetal blood-brain barrier, which means they just might impact the developing brain. And if a woman carries multiple male fetuses, it only seems logical that an immune attack of this sort would become stronger each time.  Although the maternal immune hypothesis has been around for more than two decades, there hasn’t been any direct support for it—at least not until now. A new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences suggests that there’s something to it.  In this study, researchers took blood samples from 54 mothers who had at least one gay son (about half of whom had at least one older brother), 72 mothers who had at least one heterosexual son (but no gay sons), 16 women with no sons at all, and 12 men. All participants were recruited in Canada and ranged in age from 18 to 80 years old.  Researchers conducted immunological tests on the blood samples, looking specifically for antibodies targeting two proteins (PCDH11Y and NLGN4Y). These proteins are linked to the Y chromosome (meaning they’re only found in biological males) and, further, they are known to play a role in brain development.  Significant results were only found for one of the two proteins: Specifically, mothers of gay sons had higher levels of antibodies against NLGN4Y compared to mothers from both of the control groups (this included women with heterosexual sons and women without any sons). Moreover, mothers of gay sons with older brothers had even higher anti-NLGN4Y levels in their blood than did mothers of gay sons without older brothers.  Interestingly, mothers of gay sons without older brothers possessed more of the NLGN4Y antibodies than did mothers who only had heterosexual sons. So why is that? The researchers suspect that the former group may have included women who miscarried a male fetus in the past, which could have caused them to develop the antibodies.  Although these results are fascinating, we would do well to replicate them before leaping to too many conclusions—we can’t bet the bank on single studies. Also, it’s important to note that even if the findings do hold up, this theory has its limitations. For one thing, not every guy who has a lot of older brothers is gay. For another, it doesn’t tell us anything about the origins of female homosexuality.  The truth of the matter is that the maternal immune hypothesis is probably just one of many potential biological mechanisms that might play a role in the development of sexual orientation. This makes sense when you consider how variable the gay community is in terms of factors such as gender role conformity and sexual position preference. It may very well be that different biological or genetic influences on sexual orientation result in different “types” or “kinds” of homosexuality—a conclusion that previous research has supported .  Any way you look at it, though, these findings are the latest in a growing body of literature that argues against choice and social learning as explanations for homosexuality. Instead, same-sex attraction seems to be something that people are predisposed to as a result of their biology.  Justin Lehmiller is the director of the social psychology program at Ball State University, a research fellow at The Kinsey Institute, and author of the blog Sex and Psychology . Follow him on Twitter @JustinLehmiller . Read This Next: Why Are We Searching for a 'Gay Gene'? SHARE TWEET Tagged: Sex world Sexuality relationships gay Pregnancy parenting body immunity mind Welcome to Club Tonic. BYO Gin. Get in now and we'll send you our five top stories, plus weekly updates. subscribe Stories in health and science – plus real wellness advice for imperfect humans Like Tonic Read Watch Topics Mind Body Science World Guide to Healthcare Race Sex VICE ELSEWHERE VICE Apps VICE on TV VICE Magazine Edition en United States nl Netherlands en United States About Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Use © 2018 VICE Media LLC                              Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                 Whoa there!  Looks like you're already verified.  If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email.  {* resendLink *} Please resend verification.     Thanks for verifying your email address  You're now logged in.  LINK YOUR ACCOUNT FOR PREMIUM ACCESS  Are you already a home delivery subscriber for ajc.com?  Yes, Link My Account No, I'm good      Change password {* newPasswordForm *}
		            {* newPassword *}
		            {* newPasswordConfirm *}
		            {* submitButton *}
		        {* /newPasswordForm *}     Your password has been changed  Password has been successfully updated.  Sign in      Email sent   We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.     Create a new password  We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
		        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
		        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
		        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Create a new password  We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.  Close         Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}            Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}            Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}         You're Almost Done!  Please confirm the information below before signing in.  *Required {* #socialRegistrationForm *}
		            {* socialRegistration_displayName *}
		            {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* socialRegistration_signInButton *}
		        {* /socialRegistrationForm *}     Register  *Required {* #registrationForm *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_emailAddress *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_password *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordConfirm *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_displayName *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* createAccountButton *}
		        {* /registrationForm *}     Create a New Account  *Required {* #registrationFormBlank *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_emailAddressBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordConfirmBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_displayName *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* createAccountButton *}
		        {* /registrationForm *}     Just One More Thing...  We have sent you a verification email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your AJC.com profile.  If you do not receive the verification message within a few minutes of signing up, please check your Spam or Junk folder.  Close      Thank you for registering!  We look forward to seeing you on AJC.com frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.  Click here to return to the page you were visiting.      Create a new password  Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
		        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
		        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
		        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Email sent  We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.  Close    {* mergeAccounts *}    Sign in to complete account merge {* #tradAuthenticateMergeForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
		            {* mergePassword *}
		            {* backButton *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
		        {* /tradAuthenticateMergeForm *}      Resend Email Verification   Click submit to receive another verification email {* #resendVerificationForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}   {* /resendVerificationForm *}      Your Verification Email Has Been Sent    Check your email for a verification link   Close       Thanks for verifying your email address.  You're now logged in.   Close        Sign In  It looks like you are already verified. If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email. {* #userInformationForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_password *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}  Use another account  {* /userInformationForm *}      Change password {* newPasswordForm *}
            {* newPassword *}
            {* newPasswordConfirm *}
            {* submitButton *}
        {* /newPasswordForm *}     Your password has been changed  Password has been successfully updated.  Sign in      Email sent   We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.     Create a new password  We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Create a new password  We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.  Close      Thanks for verifying your email address.  You're now logged in.    LINK YOUR ACCOUNT FOR PREMIUM ACCESS  Are you already a home delivery subscriber for ajc.com?  Yes, Link My Account  No, I'm good       {% include "includes/auth/janrain/signIn_traditional.html"  with message='It looks like you are already verified. If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email. ' %}                          Our Products    Your AJC, your way. Explore these products from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.    AJC.com Get Atlanta's News Now    AJC access ATL Find Fun Things to Do    myAJC Explore Exclusive Digital Extras and More    AJC ePaper Read Today's Paper     AJC Jobs  Contact Us     65         6      open search  clear       Subscribe now  As low as 99¢       Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out               Open menu              open search  clear        65         6     Subscribe now  As low as 99¢          close menu   Subscribe        Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out       close subnav  open subnav     Log Out           Home    News    close subnav    open subnav          All News     Local News     Obituaries     News Video     Education     Business     Politics     Technology     Nation & World     Crime & Safety     Offbeat     Podcasts     Atlanta Weather     Atlanta Pollen Count     News Blogs     AJC Investigations     Political        Insider     Get Schooled    In the News     Atlanta Watering Restrictions     Traffic: Construction Alert     Ga. Public School Ratings     Atlanta Gas        Prices     Breakdown: Murder Below the Gnat Line        Sports    close subnav    open subnav          All Sports     Braves / MLB     Falcons /  NFL     Hawks / NBA     Atlanta United / MLS     High Schools     Georgia Tech / ACC     Georgia Colleges     Georgia Bulldogs     SEC Country     Stats / Scores     Podcasts     Sports Video     Sports Blogs     Braves     Falcons     Hawks    In the News     Sports Scores     Atlanta Dream     Golf     NASCAR        Neighborhood    close subnav    open subnav          All Neighborhood     Moving to Atlanta     Buckhead     Decatur     DeKalb     Buford     Peachtree City     Gwinnett County     Intown Atlanta     Marietta     Roswell     Sandy Springs     Smyrna         Life    close subnav    open subnav          All Life     Celebrities     Home & Garden     Weddings & Celebrations     Health     Travel     Parenting     Movies & TV     Home Design Ideas     Arts & Culture     Food & Drink     Music     Find It     My Atlanta     Atlanta Events     Atlanta        Restaurants     Atlanta        Shopping    In the News     Summer in Atlanta     Games     AJC Peachtree        Road Race        Things to do    close subnav    open subnav          All Things to Do     Events in Atlanta     My Atlanta     Arts & Culture     Movie Showtimes     Radio & TV     Food & Drink     Music     Shopping     Games     Blogs     Atlanta        Restaurants     Music Scene     Arts &        Culture    In the News     Upcoming        Movies     Living Intown: BeltLine     Horoscopes        Politics    close subnav    open subnav          Issues     Insider     Legislature     Voices     Politifact     National     Take Action     Politically Georgia Voices     Jay Bookman     Kyle Wingfield     Maureen Downey     Mike Luckovich        More    close subnav    open subnav          Newsletters     Customer Care     Contact the AJC     Shopping     Games     Podcasts     AJC Jobs     AJC Cars     Kudzu     AJC Cup     AJC ePaper     Clark Howard     AJC Store     Today's Buzz     Buzz Blog     Radio &        TV Talk     News to Me    Inside AJC     Movies     Atlanta's        Top Workplaces     Find a        Garage Sale     RSS Feeds         65     Atlanta, GA 
				30303            6   Traffic Conditions         Follow us:   Facebook    Twitter   Top     Full Site Index |  Visitor Agreement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Subscribe   ©2018 Cox Media Group         Shortcuts    Home & Garden    Atlanta Jobs    Find A Car    Classifieds    Obituaries    Family-placed Notices    Contact Us/Subscribe    Customer Care    Advertise With Us    Digital Products    AJC Store     EM-dummyText Insert Code Block here     Your AJC, your way. Explore these products from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.   AJC  Access Atlanta  myAJC  my account              Subscribe now  As low as 99¢       Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out             Having more older brothers increases men’s odds of being gay, study confirms                 0                                    Having more older brothers increases men’s odds of being gay, study confirms                  0           Fiza Pirani  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution       1:56 p.m Tuesday, Dec. 12, 2017   National/World News                      0            News              Gay men have, on average, a greater number of older brothers compared with their heterosexual counterparts.        » RELATED: Black, gay and proud: one man’s quest to thrive    The pattern, referred to as the fraternal birth order effect, isn’t new  to scientists, but researchers from Canada’s Brock University, the University of Toronto and from Harvard Medical School now believe they have a biological explanation.   According to the study, published in the journal PNAS Monday, maternal antibodies in the womb may play a role in the process.    » RELATED: Flashback Fotos: Atlanta's Gay Pride through the years    Researchers believe that when a woman gets pregnant with her first boy, a protein linked to the male Y chromosome (which is only produced in males) enters her bloodstream.   Her body then creates antibodies, because it recognizes the protein as a foreign substance.       With every male baby the woman has, the build-up of antibodies increases. At high concentrations, it’s possible that the antibodies enter the brain of the second male fetus.    » RELATED: Georgia school named one of the 10 most LGBTQ-friendly colleges in the country    "That may alter the functions in the brain, changing the direction of how the male fetus may later develop their sense of attraction," study author Anthony Bogaert of Canada’s Brock University, told CNN .   To test this, the scientists collected blood samples from 142 pregnant women and tested them for antibodies to the brain protein known as NLGN4Y (also only produced in males).    » RELATED: Photos: 2017 Atlanta Pride Parade     Here’s what they found:     Mothers of homosexual sons with older male siblings had the most increased concentrations of antibodies against the protein.  Mothers of homosexual sons with no older male siblings had the second-most increased levels of antibodies against the protein.  Mothers of heterosexual sons had lower levels of the antibodies.  Mothers without sons had the lowest level of the antibodies.    Bogaert and his team have been exploring the subject for more than 20 years and have found the pattern exists across cultures.   In a research project 10 years ago , his team of psychologists and immunologists tested antibody reactivity to two male-only proteins in 16 women without sons, 72 mothers with heterosexual sons, 31 mothers with gay sons and no older brothers, 23 mothers of gay sons with older brothers, and a control group of 12 men.   That research showed the immune response to the proteins and found that mothers of gay sons, especially those with older brothers, had significantly higher concentrations of the antibody than the other women.    » RELATED: Organizers say Pride march likely to set new attendance record    But psychologists warned that the effects were modest and even if a male child has multiple male siblings, the likelihood of that child being gay is still small.   "The implications of this [new] study, especially if and when it is replicated by an independent team, are profound," Bogaert  said in a university news release . "Along with more deeply understanding the exact origin of the older brother effect, it helps solidify the idea that, at least in men, there's a strong biological basis to sexual orientation” and “adds to the growing scientific consensus that homosexuality is not a choice, but rather an innate predisposition.”   But, he added, though the research is getting closer to finding a mechanism, “I wouldn’t say we’ve solved the fraternal birth order effect puzzle.”    Read the full study at pnas.org.     Related         You don’t have to #DeleteFacebook — 7 tips to lock down your privacy without leaving social media          Kroger to hire 11,000 supermarket workers: Will also raise wages          What is #EqualPayDay? Atlanta businesses donate 20 percent of sales to highlight gender pay gap          Shelter cats across the country are learning to high-five to increase their adoption chances          Amal Clooney is on cover of Vogue; talks about twins’ first word          Who was Omar Sharif? Google honors 'Lawrence of Arabia' actor          They were holding hands after the Miami Beach Gay Pride Parade. Then four men attacked them          Watch ‘Wheel of Fortune’ contestant lose $7,100 after mispronunciation flub          Why the Obamas won’t get an invitation to the royal wedding                     View Comments 0             Sign up for e-newsletters  Want more news?   Sign up for free e-newsletters to get more of AJC delivered to your inbox.   EM-dummyText Insert Code Block here                      Most Read     Minute by minute updates in the Tex McIver murder trial    Hartsfield-Jackson leader asked to resign from Atlanta mayor's cabinet    Breaking News: Livestream video          Things To Do      Add Event +  See More                                Weather and Traffic       65  30303                    6                    Most Read     Minute by minute updates in the Tex McIver murder trial    Hartsfield-Jackson leader asked to resign from Atlanta mayor's cabinet    Breaking News: Livestream video          Things To Do      Add Event +  See More                        More from ajc.com    Topics         News     Sports     Neighborhoods     Life     Things to do     Blogs     More                  Sports    Report: Oregon extends scholarship offer to South Dakota transfer Matt Mooney                Sports    5-star Ashton Hagans on Kentucky commitment: ‘It’s what I’ve been waiting on’                Sports    Dan Mullen wants Florida’s Orange & Blue game to set spring attendance record                Sports    Alabama players arrive at White House, look sharp before meeting President Trump                Sports    BREAKING: Auburn lands offensive line commitment from Georgia powerhouse                Sports    Which player’s injury is most damaging to LSU baseball team?               Follow us:   Facebook    Twitter   Top    Full Site Index |  Visitor Agreement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Subscribe   ©2018 Cox Media Group      Close   Sections news sports life neighborhoods shop things to do Shortcuts ajc obituaries family-placed notices classifieds homefinder atlanta jobs find your car manage your profile contact us customer care advertise with us digital products Partners find & save coupons kudzu savings.com valpak myajc Fun game center Member Center sign in manage your profile Utilities archives weather traffic sitemap Follow Us facebook twitter instagram youtube pinterest RSS Feeds    PRODUCTS From The Atlanta Journal-Constitution   AJC.com - Get Atlanta's News Now  AJC Access Atlanta - Find Fun Things to Do  myAJC - Explore Exclusive Digital Extras and More  AJC ePaper - Read Today's Paper      Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter   © 2017 Cox Media Group .                                                By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy , and understand your options regarding Ad Choices .                                                Learn about careers at Cox Media Group .                                               HOME      FORECAST    Local  Graphical   Aviation  Marine  Rivers and Lakes  Hurricanes  Severe Weather  Fire Weather  Sun/Moon  Long Range Forecasts  Climate Prediction      PAST WEATHER    Past Weather  Heating/Cooling Days  Monthly Temperatures  Records  Astronomical Data     WEATHER SAFETY    Safety Campaigns  Air Quality  Beach Hazards  Cold/Windchill  Boating  Drought  Floods  Fog  Heat  Hurricanes  Lightning  Rip Currents  Space  Thunderstorms, Hail  Tornadoes  Tsunamis  Ultraviolet (UV)  Wildland Fires  Wind  Winter Weather      INFORMATION    Owlie Kid's Page  Weather-Ready Nation  Wireless Emergency Alerts  Brochures, Posters, etc.  Cooperative Observers  Daily Briefing   Damage/Fatality/Injury Statistics  Forecast Models  GIS Data Portal  NOAA Weather Radio  Publications  SKYWARN Storm Spotters  StormReady  TsunamiReady       EDUCATION     Be a Force of Nature  NWS Education Home      SEARCH         Search For      NWS   All NOAA           ABOUT     About NWS  Organization  Strategic Plan  For NWS Employees   International  National Centers  Products and Services   Careers   Contact Us  Glossary             How Dangerous is Lightning?   Lightning is a major cause of storm related                         deaths in  the                         U.S.                         A lightning strike can result                         in a cardiac arrest (heart stopping) at the time of the                         injury, although some victims may appear to have a delayed                         death a few days later if they are resuscitated but have                         suffered irreversible brain damage.  According to the NWS Storm Data , over the last    30 years (1987-2016)   the U.S. has averaged 47 reported lightning fatalities per year.  Only about 10% of people who are struck by lightning    are  killed, leaving 90% with various degrees of disability.  More recently, in the last 10 years (2007-2016), the U.S. has averaged 30 lightning fatalities.     Odds of Becoming a Lightning Victim  (based on    averages for 2007-2016 )    Estimated    U.S.    population as of 2017  325,000,000    Average Number of Deaths Reported  30  Estimated number of Injuries  270  300    Odds    of being struck  in a given year (estimated total deaths + estimated   injuries)  1/1,083,000    Odds    of being struck in your lifetime (Est. 80 years)  1/13,500    Odds you will be affected by someone  struck (10 people for every    1 struck)  1/1,350                   US Dept of Commerce  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  National Weather Service 1325 East West Highway Silver Spring, MD 20910 Web Master's Email: Contact Us    Disclaimer  Information Quality  Help  Glossary    Privacy Policy  Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)  About Us  Career Opportunities                  Accessibility links   Skip to article  Skip to navigation        Telegraph.co.uk               Tuesday 10 April 2018                 Home  Video  News  World  Sport  Business  Money  Comment  Culture  Travel  Life  Women  Fashion  Luxury  Tech  Film            Politics  Investigations  Obits  Education  Science  Earth  Weather  Health  Royal  Celebrity  Defence  Scotland      Advertisement            Home »  News »  Health »  Health News             Having more older brothers increases likelihood of being gay  The more older brothers a man has the greater the chance of them being gay, 
  research suggests.            Scientists believe they have found a link between the number of brothers and male has and the likelihood of being gay  Photo: Alamy               By Claire Carter   8:02AM BST 05 Sep 2013      Scientists say the results of the study prove the impact of nature over nurture on male sexuality. The increased chance of being gay is believed to occur because women mount an immune response when pregnant with a boy, which attacks part of the foetus’ brain linked to sexual orientation. This immune response increases with every male child. Researchers collected data from almost 1,000 men, including some who had been adopted or brought up with stepbrothers and stepsisters. They found having stepbrothers did not have an impact on sexual orientation, but having biological brothers did – even if they were brought up separately. Scientists from Brock University in Ontario claim this shows the influence of nature over nurture on sexuality, and brings traditional arguments into question. They found each older brother raised the odds that a man was homosexual by a third.  Related Articles     Taking Ritalin gave me my life back   05 Sep 2013     The benefits of height   08 Sep 2013     Rudd launches passionate defence of gay marriage   03 Sep 2013     I understand gay people's fears, says Chief Rabbi Lord Sacks   25 Aug 2013     Britain's homophobia needs to be tackled before Russia's   21 Aug 2013     It is thought that when a mother is pregnant with a boy she produces antibodies which attack the part of the unborn baby’s brain that controls sexuality. The strength of this ‘immune response’ is said to increase with each son, raising the odds of homosexuality. But scientists found no direct link between girls having lots of sisters and being lesbians. The study has been printed by New Scientist, which show the impact of siblings on a person’s psychological traits – where for example older siblings are said to be more intelligent but more cautious than younger brothers and sisters.               Health News       News »    UK News »    Health »           In Health News            Weird X-rays              Life begins at 70              Living proof: the secret of healthy ageing              Why olive oil should be kept out of the frying pan              Ebola outbreak in pictures                        Top news galleries       Woody Allen's 30 best one-liners          Comedy    Martin Chilton selects 30 great one-liners from the comedian and film 
  star Woody Allen       The best British political insults          Culture   A hilarious history of political insults and putdowns, from Churchill to 
  Corbyn       Culture stars who died in 2016          Culture News   We celebrate and remember the culture stars who have passed away in 2016       US Presidents: 30 great one-liners          Books   Great quotes from White House incumbents: will Donald Trump be joining them?       100 funny jokes by 100 comedians          Comedy   One hundred whip-smart wisecracks       History's greatest conspiracy theories           From global warming to 9/11, Shakespeare to Elvis, Diana to JFK, peak oil to 
  Roswell, conspiracy theories abound.       Grand stand views of London            In pics: Stunning aerial shots of London's football stadia by 
  photographer Jason Hawkes       Russia's abandoned space shuttles            In pics: The crumbling remains of the Soviet Union's space programme       Home-made in China           Ambitious Chinese inventors take on crazy do-it-yourself projects       Sinkholes around the world            In pics: Sinkholes, craters and collapsed roads around the world   Comments           Advertisement                            Advertisement            Latest Video»            Large rat climbs on sleeping commuter             Teen pepper-sprayed at Trump rally             Disabled great-grandfather denied stairlift and forced to crawl             Elderly wombat rescued after being attacked             EgyptAir crew finally arrive in Cairo            Sponsored   When media meets medicine                More from the web            Advertisement        Advertisement              More from the web                  More from the web                        World News           The latest world news    View         US News           Latest and breaking stories from the United States    View         Film           All the latest film trailers, reviews and features    View         Football           Catch up on all the latest football news and results    View              Back to top      HOME  News  UK News  Politics   Long Reads   Wikileaks  Jobs     World News  Europe  USA  China   Royal Family News   Celebrity news  Dating     Finance  Education  Defence   Weird News   Editor's Choice  Financial Services     Pictures  Video  Matt  Alex   Comment   Blogs  Crossword     Contact us  Privacy and Cookies  Advertising  Fantasy Football   Tickets    Announcements  Reader Prints        Follow Us  Apps  Epaper  Expat    Promotions  Subscriber  Syndication        © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018  Terms and Conditions   Today's News  Archive  Style Book  Weather Forecast                                          We use cookies to provide you with a better onsite experience. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy . Skip to main content Subscribe Menu Scientific American  English Cart 0 Sign In | Register  Email: Password: Forgot password? Login Not yet registered? Search Subscribe English Español العربية Other Editions Close Search Close Search (examples: physics, climate change, etc.) The Sciences Mind Health Tech Sustainability Education Video Podcasts Blogs Store Subscribe Current Issue Cart Sign In Register Share Latest The Sciences Having Older Brothers Increases a Man's Odds of Being Gay By Tracy Staedter on June 27, 2006 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Reddit Email Print Share via Google+ Stumble Upon  Advertisement  The number of biological older brothers a boy's mother has carried--whether they live with him in the same household or not--affects his chances of being gay. The findings, reported this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, by Anthony Bogaert of Brock University, lend credence to the theory that it's not the social or rearing factors that influence a man's sexual orientation, but rather prenatal mechanisms that begin in the womb. The idea that prenatal mechanisms may influence sexual orientation has been around for a couple of decades. In 1996, Bogaert along with colleague Ray Blanchard correlated sexual orientation in men with the number of older brothers, but it wasn't clear if that influence was occurring because the boys shared the same household or because they had shared the same womb. In the new study, Bogaert pitted prenatal against postnatal by examining four samples of homosexual and heterosexual men, for a total of 944 participants. The data for three of the samples had been collected previously, and included detailed information about the men's sexual orientation, as well as their family life. Because most of the men from these three study groups came from unbroken families, Bogaert looked at a fourth group, composed of men who had been adopted or raised with half- or step-siblings. He also gathered data from this group about how long members lived with each sibling and whether they had brothers or sisters with whom they had never lived. He reasoned that if the social or rearing factor theories were correct, he would expect to see certain things. First, it wouldn't matter whether a gay man's older brothers had been biologically related or not, the social influence would be there. Second, the amount of time the young boy lived with his older brothers, biological or not, should affect his sexual orientation. Third, if the boy did not live with older brothers, then the numbers should not impact his sexual preference. Bogaert found the opposite to be true. First, he found that only the number of biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men--even when the number of non-biological older brothers was significantly higher. Second, his study showed that the amount of time reared with older brothers--either related or not--did not predict a young boy's becoming homosexual. And surprisingly, Bogaert discovered that even if a young man did not grow up in the same house as his older brothers, the fact that he had older biological brothers increased his odds of being gay. The fact that the common denominator between the older and younger biological brothers is the mother hints at a prenatal influence on sexual orientation. What it could be is still a mystery. But one theory suggests that after delivering a boy, a woman's immune system produces antibodies to male-specific proteins. During subsequent pregnancies the mother's placenta may deliver the antibodies to the fetus, possibly affecting its development.     Rights & Permissions   ABOUT THE AUTHOR(S) Tracy Staedter Recent Articles Brazilian Trees May Harbor Millions of Unidentified Species of Bacteria Seismic Shaking Could Make Oil Extraction Easier Flaws in Placenta May Be Early Sign of Autism Advertisement Read This Next March 2005 February 21, 2005 Mind Do Gays Have a Choice? February 1, 2006  —  Robert Epstein  Newsletter Get smart. Sign up for our email newsletter. Sign Up Every Issue. Every Year. 1845 - Present Neuroscience. Evolution. Health. Chemistry. Physics. Technology. Subscribe Now! Having Older Brothers Increases a Man's Odds of Being Gay Follow us instagram soundcloud youtube twitter facebook rss   Store  About   Press Room   More      FAQs  Contact Us  Site Map      Advertise  Special Ad Sections  SA Custom Media      Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Use of Cookies   Scientific American is part of Springer Nature, which owns or has commercial relations with thousands of scientific publications (many of them can be found at www.springernature.com/us ). Scientific American maintains a strict policy of editorial independence in reporting developments in science to our readers. © 2018 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Big Questions. Surprising Theories. Learn More                                               Subscribe    Sign In                    Home       Contact SFGATE    Classifieds    About SFGATE    About SFGATE  FAQ  SFGate Newsletters  SFGate Staff  Careers  Site Index  Hearst      Ad Choices    About The Chronicle    About The Chronicle  The Chronicle Staff  Become a Subscriber  Manage Your Subscription  Customer Service  Careers  e-edition  Back Copies  Chronicle in Education  Corrections      Advertise with Us    More on Advertising    More on Advertising  Place a Classified Ad  About Our Ads  Public Notices  Local Business Directory  Place an Obituary  Gate List      Store    Privacy policy    Chronicle Archives    Terms of Use    Newsletters    Get news alerts            SFGate Customer support       Get VIP access with SF Chronicle Membership       Get SFGate newsletters for the latest from the Bay       Check out the Top 100 Bay Area restaurants          Local       Bay Area & State News    Traffic    Weather & Storms    Crime    Earthquakes    Obituaries    California Wildfires    Expensive SF    Arrest Records    Video            Memory boxes capture Afghans’ pain of war, attempt to heal       Man pleads not guilty to threatening women in Rep. Jackie       Can Tyler Beede join short list of Giants pitchers to win their       Wiener scales back bill that would allow taller housing near          News       Education    Nation    World    Politics    Sponsored: Clean Energy CA            The Latest: Protesters, Russian 'troll' watch Zuckerberg       Actor T.J. Miller charged with making bomb report on train       Sen. Elizabeth Warren to join Cordray on campaign trail       AP PHOTOS: Israeli cafe brings Holocaust survivors together          Sports       49ers    Raiders    Giants    A's    Warriors    Quakes    Golf    Sports Calendar    NFL    MLB    NBA    College    Preps    Outdoors            Warriors sign Quinn Cook to multi-year contract       Giants’ bats stay cold in loss to Diamondbacks       Giants 2014 first-rounder Tyler Beede to make big-league debut       Kevon Looney thriving as Warriors’ small-ball center          Real Estate       The Walk-Through    New Homes    Open Homes    Luxury    Rentals    Mortgage Rates    Commercial    Place an ad    Home Guides    On the Block Blog            Hot Property: Rejuvenated Oakland Foursquare blends classic       There’s 30-foot-tall bamboo growing inside this $11.85M       On the market for the first time in over 75 years—a       Walk-through: Elegant Piedmont Mediterranean brimming with          Business       Reviews    Technology    The Tech Chronicles    Jobs    Real Estate    Public Notices    Sponsored Content    VisionSF            Goldman’s new hiring push in SF dumps dress code for kombucha       Business News Roundup, April 10       San Jose homes jump $800 a day; Wozniak off Facebook; Apple’s       ICYMI: #DeleteFacebook, Virgin Galactic’s spaceship, USA Today          A&E;       The Daily Dish    Movies    Music & Nightlife    Performance    Art    Comics    Events    Books    TV    Horoscope    Crosswords & Puzzles    Things To Do            Jon Hamm and Rosamund Pike shine in confusing yet satisfying       The latest from Dear Abby       Reno-Tahoe Nightlife       Krysten Ritter, David Tennant wow fans at Silicon Valley Comic          Food       Restaurants    Wine    The Press    Top 100 Restaurants    Chronicle Wine Competition    Reservations    Beer News    Inside Scoop SF    Healthy Eating    Food critic Michael Bauer            The best restaurants to dine alone in SF, according to Yelp      How to explore Los Gatos through wine (The Press)       A Sonic in Mississippi will not serve customers smoking weed,       Beer in the Bay: Green Flash's future murky after sale and          Living       Reviews    Home & Garden    Animals    Style    Cannabis    LGBT    Mommy Files    Parenting    Sponsored Content    Outdoors    Health    Education    Parties            Seth Meyers shares dramatic story of wife delivering baby in       Northern California's sea otters are springing back. Here's where       Stylish tips from a plant trend-setter’s garden       Our favorite Bay Area Instagrams from 'miracle March'          Travel       Monterey-Carmel    Weekend Getaways    Wine Country    Napa    Reno-Tahoe    Hawaii    Mexico    SF Insider: Things to do    Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips            Travel Troubleshooter: Did hurricane blow away my refund?      How to explore Los Gatos through wine (The Press)       California’s Legoland finishes castle hotel (out of real       Suite Spot: Low-key luxury in Lodi wine country          Obituaries       Obituaries    Place an Obituary    Pets Remembered            The Latest: Gorbachev fears US-Russian confrontation       Pioneering black choreographer, director Donald McKayle dies       Report: Austrian Holocaust denier Gerd Honsik dead at 76       Prolific voice actor and comedian Chuck McCann dies at 83            Cars       Dealers    Car Blog    My Ride    Al's Road to the Big Game    Sell Your Car            Turning off the heater helps Tesla set record for EV Cannonball       Napa 'Porsche' may be the priciest Craigslist rust pile ever       Hellcat doing 160 MPH is too fast for cop, but then driver's luck       Francophile reminisces about family memories in Citroen          Jobs       This Week's Ads    SFGATE & Chronicle Jobs    Advertise    Salary Wizard    Get To Work            What to do when your interviews don’t produce job offers       Are you a problem solver or a job seeker?       How do explain job hopping?       How to discuss money during the interview          Classifieds    Chronicle       Latest columns    Michael Bauer    Leah Garchik    Bruce Jenkins    Esther Mobley    Ann Killion    Otis R. Taylor Jr.    Thomas Lee    Matier & Ross    Heather Knight    Kathleen Pender    Scott Ostler            Special Report: Forgotten Survivors of AIDS       Rising reality: Managing rising sea levels       Michael Bauer's Top 100 Restaurants                Menu Sections                            https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Boy-s-odds-of-being-gay-traced-to-womb-Study-2494005.php     Boy's odds of being gay traced to womb / Study looks anew at puzzling role of brothers' birth order    Sabin Russell, Chronicle Medical Writer   Published 4:00 am, Tuesday, June 27, 2006                                                                        A boy's chances of growing up gay increase with the number of older brothers he has, and the Canadian researcher who spotted the trend a decade ago now believes he is closer to explaining why: It all starts in the womb.   Brock University psychologist Anthony Bogaert first reported in 1996 the startling finding that a boy's probability of growing up gay increases by about one-third with each older brother in his family. It's a subtle phenomenon -- nearly all boys even in large families still grow up straight -- but subsequent research has affirmed that the "fraternal birth order effect" is real.   Since that discovery, researchers have been trying to figure out what might explain it. The most likely answer, they thought, had something to do with how younger brothers are raised -- perhaps having many older brothers drives the youngest to adopt a different sex role.     But in a study released Monday by the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , Bogaert unearthed another surprise. The sexual orientation of younger brothers appears to be established before birth.       LATEST SFGATE VIDEOS          Now Playing:            Now Playing   SFPD announces arrests in suspected burglary ring  SFPD      'Alien' at Silicon Valley Comic Con  San Francisco Chronicle      New York Fire Department video shows Trump Tower burning  San Francisco Chronicle      Toys "R" Us closure in Emeryville  Ted Andersen, SFGATE      Late season storm hits Bay Area  Douglas Zimmerman, SF Gate      Daniel Mengden on his start Thursday  Susan Slusser      Daniel Mengden on his start Thursday  San Francisco Chronicle      Virgin Galactic conducts first powered flight of new spaceship  Virgin Galactic      Eagle captured on nest camera during earthquake  Explore.org      Giants Beat Mariners 10-1  San Francisco Chronicle           "These results provide evidence that a prenatal mechanism ... affects men's sexual orientation development," he wrote.   Bogaert came to his latest conclusion in a study involving the birth order and family history of 944 men -- about half identifying as straight and the other half gay or bisexual.   In one analysis, he examined the fraternal birth order effect in families in which unrelated older brothers were added to the mix through remarriage of divorced couples or through adoption. In short, if there was something about growing up with a lot of older brothers that raised the chances of a younger boy being gay, it did not show up in these blended families of stepbrothers, half-brothers and adoptees.     Bogaert also examined families in which biologically related brothers were raised separately by families after divorce. No matter where the boys were raised -- in small or large families -- the only factor that showed the elevated chance of growing up gay was having older biological brothers.   By ruling out child-raising factors and ruling in biological factors, Bogaert concluded that the results "support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men."   The finding is consistent with -- but does not prove -- a theory that some male homosexuality may be caused by exposure in the womb to maternal antibodies created in the mother's blood during previous delivery of male children.   Although the placenta provides a barrier between the blood of mother and fetus, during childbirth there is an "inevitable" mixing of maternal and newborn blood, wrote Michigan State University neuroscientist Marc Breedlove , in a commentary accompanying Bogaert's article.   The theory suggests that mothers during childbirth may develop antibodies to proteins made by their firstborn son's Y chromosome, and subsequent pregnancies may stir up those antibodies in an immune reaction that affects the development of a male fetus. "Whether this is really what is happening ... remains to be seen, but it is provocative hypothesis," said Breedlove.   So far, scientists have found no similar relationship between birth order and the probability that a girl will grow up to be lesbian. That could be because a female baby has the same double X chromosomes as her mother and is less likely to provoke an immune reaction during childbirth.   Breedlove stressed in an interview Monday that these biological "perturbations" possibly affecting male fetuses should not be confused with disease or a birth defect. They are simply biological effects that steer development. "It just means there is a variation," he said.   Breedlove said that he is surprised that Bogaert's original findings about the fraternal birth order effect are not more widely known, because the work is so interesting and has been replicated by other researchers. One reason may be that homosexuality occurs in about 4 to 5 percent of the population, so the increase noted among boys with several older brothers is a small effect involving a small percentage of all people.   Similarly surprising research has found that the fraternal birth order effect is limited to younger boys who are right-handed. In other words, if a younger boy has many older brothers but is left-handed, he does not have an elevated chance of being gay.   "We never dreamed of such an association," said Breedlove, a co-author of that study.   The right-handed exception to the fraternal birth order effect was particularly surprising because other research had previously uncovered another puzzler: Both men and women who are left-handed are slightly more likely to be gay.                                                 Most Popular        1   Teen kicked off plane for throwing up     2   How to check if your Facebook data was harvested by Cambridge...     3   ‘Roller-coaster ride’ of rain expected across Bay Area...     4   Opinion: Trump melts down after Cohen raid - and only hurts...     5   Berkeley's beloved Virginia Bakery closing     6   Burning Man founder Larry Harvey hospitalized after massive...     7   Oakland home by same architect who designed Monterey Aquarium...     8   Man nearly stabbed to death after group blocks car near SF’s...     9   Watch as a silo demolition goes awry in Denmark     10   Her surgery was supposed to be routine. Instead, this Russian...                LATEST NEWS       Ex-'Silicon Valley' star charged with making bomb report  Beloved Berkeley bakery closing after 65 years  Opinion: Trump meltdown after Cohen raid only hurts himself  Warriors sign Curry's fill-in to multi-year contract  HBO drama filming Season 2 in Monterey this week  Seth Meyers' wife gives birth in lobby of apartment building  Map shows how men out-earn women in each state  Cal Poly fraternity suspended for blackface incident            THE CHRONICLE'S VISIONSF       Inspiring Leadership with Purpose  Learn about visionary Bay Area business leaders who strive to make the world a better place.                 View Comments        © 2018 Hearst Communications, Inc.                      Logo  Return to Top    About   Our Company  The Press: Guide to Wine Country  Green State: Cannabis Culture  Careers  Advertising  Ad Choices  Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights     Contact   Customer Service  Newsroom Contacts     Connect   Sign up for Email  Alerts  Facebook  Twitter  Pinterest   Google  Instagram     Subscribe   SFChronicle.com  App  e-edition  The Chronicle Archives  Subscription Offers  Store  Subscriber Services     Hearst Newspapers  © Copyright Hearst Communications, Inc.                                          Close            Skip to main content                 switch to the US edition     switch to the UK edition     switch to the Australia edition     switch to the International edition     current edition: US edition    The Guardian - Back to home           Make a contribution   Subscribe   Find a job  Jobs    Sign in    Comment activity    Edit profile    Email preferences    Change password    Sign out     My account   Search      News    Opinion    Sport    Culture    Lifestyle          Show More          News    US news    World news    Environment    Soccer    US politics    Business    Tech    Science    Homelessness       Opinion    The Guardian view    Columnists    Letters    Opinion videos    Cartoons       Sport    Soccer    NFL    Tennis    MLB    MLS    NBA    NHL       Culture    Film    Books    Music    Art & design    TV & radio    Stage    Classical    Games       Lifestyle    Fashion    Food    Recipes    Love & sex    Home & garden    Health & fitness    Family    Travel    Money               What term do you want to search?     Search with google        Become a supporter    Subscribe    Sign in/up     My account    Comment activity    Edit profile    Email preferences    Change password    Sign out         US edition     switch to the UK edition     switch to the Australia edition     switch to the International edition        Jobs    The Guardian app    Video    Podcasts    Pictures    Newsletters    Digital archive    Crosswords         Facebook         Twitter      Jobs           UK    UK politics    Education    Media    Society    Law    Scotland    Wales    Northern Ireland     More                                 Sexuality     The Observer       Is 10% of the population really gay?      Drawing on the widest survey of sexual behaviour since the Kinsey Report, David Spiegelhalter, in his book Sex By Numbers, answers key questions about our private lives. Here he reveals how Kinsey’s contested claim that 10% of us are gay is actually close to the mark       David Spiegelhalter   Sun 5 Apr 2015 03.00 EDT   Last modified on Wed 21 Mar 2018 20.15 EDT           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share via Email                  View more sharing options      Share on LinkedIn           Share on Pinterest           Share on Google+           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Messenger           Close                                                             Changing times: students stage a kiss-in at a Sainsbury’s store in Brighton last year after two gay women were threatened with ejection for kissing.
Photograph: Christopher Ison     F or a single statistic to be the primary propaganda weapon for a radical political movement is unusual. Back in 1977, the US National Gay Task Force (NGTF) was invited into the White House to meet President Jimmy Carter’s representatives – a first for gay and lesbian groups. The NGTF’s most prominent campaigning slogan was “we are everywhere”, backed up by the memorable statistical claim that one in 10 of the US population was gay – this figure was deeply and passionately contested.      Gay Britain: what do the statistics say?           Read more       So where did Bruce Voeller , a scientist who was a founder and first director of the NGTF, get this nice round 10% from? To find out, we have to delve back into Alfred Kinsey’s surveys in 1940s America , which were groundbreaking at the time but are now seen as archaic in their methods: he sought out respondents in prisons and the gay underworld, made friends with them and, over a cigarette, noted down their behaviours using an obscure code. Kinsey did not believe that sexual identity was fixed and simply categorised, and perhaps his most lasting contribution was his scale, still used today, in which individuals are rated from exclusively heterosexual to exclusively homosexual on a scale of 0 to 6.  Kinsey’s headline finding was that “at least 37% of the male population has some homosexual experience between the beginning of adolescence and old age”, meaning physical contact to the point of orgasm. He claimed that 13% of males were predominately homosexual for at least three years between the ages of 16 and 55 (scoring at least 4) and that 4% of males were exclusively homosexual all their lives (scoring 6). For 30-year-old US men, he estimated that 83% would score 0 (totally heterosexual), 8% would be 1 or 2 on the scale, and 9% would be at least a 3. He acknowledged that people could move on the scale during their lifetime, and indeed Kinsey himself is said to have moved from a 1 or 2 when younger to a 3 or 4 in middle age.  When he published his study on women in 1953, Kinsey estimated that 20% of women had had some same-sex experience and 13% to orgasm. In unmarried females between the ages of 20 and 35, he claimed there was at least some homosexual experience in 11%-20%, and 1%-3% were exclusively homosexual.                                     Facebook         Twitter         Pinterest         Alfred Kinsey interviews a woman for one of his sexual behaviour surveys. Photograph: Bill Dellenback/AP   So, in 1973, when Voeller was putting together the NGTF campaign , he went back to Kinsey’s estimates for those with predominantly homosexual experience (4 to 6 on his scale) for at least three years. As this was around 7% for women and 13% for men he took an average to get the headline figure: 10% of the population was gay.  This 10% claim was controversial, to say the least, and reignited old arguments about Kinsey’s poor survey methods. But even cleaned-up data gave similar answers, and Voeller stuck to the 10%, stating in 1990 that “the concept that 10% of the population is gay has become a generally accepted ‘fact’… As with so many pieces of knowledge (and myths), repeated telling made it so.”  This did not stop this figure being strongly disputed by conservatives, who were overjoyed when, in 1991, the US National Survey of Men estimated that only 2.3% of men said that they had not been exclusively heterosexual, while only 1.1% said they had been exclusively homosexual. Statistics had become part of a political battleground, with heated arguments back and forth, but unfortunately without any agreed definition: what was meant by “homosexual”?  When it became necessary to predict what would happen to the Aids epidemic, it was vital to find out what people actually did with each other. It was clear that just asking people their sexuality could give wildly differing answers depending on how people interpreted terms such as “homosexual”, and so a more nuanced approach was adopted. Surveys started to distinguish between identity (what sexual orientation you claim); attraction (who you find sexually attractive); and behaviour (whether you have had same-sex experiences). The numbers for each area turn out to be very different.  Let’s start with sexual identity. The National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (Natsal) is the most reliable source of information on what Britons do in private, and has taken place every 10 years since 1990. Natsal-3, from around 2010, asked which “best describes how you think of yourself”: a) heterosexual/straight; b) gay/lesbian; c) bisexual, d) other?  Over an age-range from 16 to 74, 1% of women and 1.5% of men consider themselves gay/lesbian, and 1.4% of women and 1% of men think of themselves as bisexual. But there is a clear gradient with age, with a much higher proportion in younger people, particularly in younger women: the percentage for women between 16 and 24 jumps nearly fourfold.  Sexual identity is also now part of official government statistics. As part of its huge household survey, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) found 1.1% reported their identity as gay or lesbian – roughly the same as Natsal. But only 0.4% of respondents reported themselves as bisexual to ONS, around a third that reported to Natsal. So is this evidence of bias in the Natsal participants or a sign of reluctance to open up in a general household survey that is largely concerned with mundane matters such as shopping habits?  I am inclined to go with Natsal, and my judgment would be that roughly one in 80 adults under 75 would consider themselves gay/lesbian and one in 80 bisexual, but with the balance towards bisexual in women. That works out to a total of nearly 1.2 million – the population of Birmingham.                                 Facebook         Twitter         Pinterest         Andrew Wale and Neil Allard after marrying, in Brighton in 2014, in the first legal same-sex wedding in Britain. Photograph: Luke MacGregor/Reuters   There are around 9 million LGBT (lesbian, gay bisexual and transgender) Americans, roughly equivalent to the population of New Jersey, according to a recent US review. But, just as in the UK, the routine US National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) comes up with a lower figure for bisexuality than the dedicated sex surveys: it seems plausible that there is less willingness to acknowledge bisexual identity in routine surveys, whereas those who clearly identify themselves as gay or lesbian are willing to be more upfront .  Same-sex sexual behaviour can come in all degrees of intensity. So Natsal carefully distinguishes a “same-sex experience”, which could be just a smooch in the dark, from a “same-sex partner”, who is someone with whom you have had any genital contact intended to achieve orgasm. Respondents are asked about activity at any age, so adolescent fumblings counted.  For women in the age range 16 to 44, the proportion who report having had some same-sex experience has shown a dramatic rise over the past 20 years: from 4% in 1990 to 10% in 2000, and to 16% in 2010 – a massive change in behaviour over such a short period. But this is not all just girls kissing girls in imitation of Madonna and Britney Spears; around half report genital contact, and around half of these in the past five years, so that overall nearly one in 20 women report a same-sex partner in the past five years.         The proportion of people with same-sex experience is higher than the proportion who identify as gay and bisexual    But has there really been a change, or are women simply more willing to report what they get up to? Using some neat cross-checking, Natsal reckons that the change between 1990 and 2000 was partly due to more honest reporting, but the rise in 2000 and 2010 was all real.  And it is clear that there is a lot of experimental activity – roughly, for each woman who has had a recent same-sex partner there are two more of the same age who have had some same-sex contact in their lives, but no partner in the past five years.  Men show a different pattern. In 2010, about 8% of 16- to 44-year-old men reported having had a same-sex experience: this is higher than in 1990, possibly associated with both better reporting and the decline in fear of HIV, but there have been no substantial recent changes.  However, the picture shows a clear peak of lifetime same-sex experience for men aged around 60, and then a dramatic drop in those around 70, a pattern not seen in women. History might provide some explanation: men now aged around 60 were teenagers in the liberating 60s, when homosexuality was legalised, while men who are now around 70 grew up when same-sex male behaviour in men was illegal and frequently prosecuted. Much younger men, meanwhile, would have come to adulthood in the more sober era of HIV.  Overall the proportion of people with same-sex experience is far higher than the proportion who identify themselves as gay and bisexual. This must mean that many same-sex contacts are by people who do not consider themselves gay or bisexual. That’s just what we find in reputable surveys: in the last big US survey, 10% of women and 3% of men who identified themselves as “heterosexual” also reported a same‑sex contact.  Hence the public health world uses the rather clumsy phrase “men who have sex with men” (MSM) rather than “homosexual” or “gay”.  And there is one characteristic that unites female and male same-sex experience: the rates are two to three times higher among those with further education than those with no qualifications.  Along with changes in behaviour, there’s been a consistent shift in attitudes to same-sex partnerships . Natsal has been asking the same questions at 10-year intervals, and the proportion of 16- to 44-year-old women who agree that “same-sex relationships are not wrong at all” has gone up from 28% in 1990 to 66% in 2010 – an extraordinary reversal of opinion over just 20 years. Men are a bit more conservative, but agreement has still more than doubled, from 23% to 50%.  Bruce Voeller didn’t live to see the changes in attitudes he had fought for so hard. He carried on writing academic papers on the history of oral and anal sex, and was at the historic meeting that decided the term “Aids” in 1982 – some recall it was his suggestion. He died aged 59 in 1994 of an Aids-related illness in California.  Yet his legacy lives on. Because, if we consider possible transient same-sex behaviour, his rather wild stat-in-the-dark begins to look rather reasonable. Identity aside, ten per cent of the population, it seems, could well be involved in same sex behaviour after all.  David Spiegelhalter’s Sex By Numbers: What Statistics Can Tell Us About Sexual Behaviour is published by Profile and Wellcome Collection (£12.99). Click here to order a copy for £10.39    Topics     Sexuality    The Observer        Gender    LGBT rights    Sex    features         Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share via Email           Share on LinkedIn           Share on Pinterest           Share on Google+           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Messenger               Reuse this content                            View all comments >            Order by    newest    oldest    recommendations      Show 25    25    50    100    All      Threads    collapsed    expanded    unthreaded       Loading comments… Trouble loading?         View more comments             more on this story                             'Exaggerations' threaten public trust in science, says leading statistician     David Spiegelhalter, president of Royal Statistical Society, says sloppy attitude to statistics leads to misleading claims and draws parallels to rise of fake news          Published: 28 Jun 2017      'Exaggerations' threaten public trust in science, says leading statistician                           ONS looks to big data as it explores new ways to measure UK economy     Office for National Statistics to harvest data from traffic sensors, mobile phones and satellite images at new campus in Wales          Published: 27 Mar 2017      ONS looks to big data as it explores new ways to measure UK economy                           The hi-tech war on science fraud     The Long Read: The problem of fake data may go far deeper than scientists admit. Now a team of researchers has a controversial plan to root out the perpetrators          Published: 1 Feb 2017      The hi-tech war on science fraud                           Statisticians fear Trump White House will manipulate figures to fit narrative     Experts, including former chief statistician of the US and outgoing head of Bureau of Labor Statistics, see threats to system of public, accurate data          Published: 30 Jan 2017      Statisticians fear Trump White House will manipulate figures to fit narrative                  A Field Guide to Lies and Statistics review – timely but limited             Published: 16 Jan 2017      A Field Guide to Lies and Statistics review – timely but limited            How statistics lost their power – and why we should fear what comes next             Published: 19 Jan 2017      How statistics lost their power – and why we should fear what comes next            Our nine-point guide to spotting a dodgy statistic             Published: 17 Jul 2016      Our nine-point guide to spotting a dodgy statistic            Brexit: how can the same statistics be read so differently?             Published: 3 Jun 2016      Brexit: how can the same statistics be read so differently?                     More more on this story              Most viewed                            UK    UK politics    Education    Media    Society    Law    Scotland    Wales    Northern Ireland          back to top                 jobs   become a supporter   make a contribution   guardian labs     about us   work for us   contact us   advertise with us     help   terms & conditions   privacy policy   cookie policy   securedrop   complaints & corrections     all topics   all contributors   Facebook   Twitter   subscribe   digital newspaper archive       © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.                     Breaking News Health + Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram Having older brothers increases men's likelihood of being gay By Jen Christensen , CNN Updated 6:42 AM ET, Tue December 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED The science of sexuality Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The science of sexuality  01:07 Story highlights Scientists say mothers who have more than one boy had higher concentrations of a certain protein Earlier studies have noticed that gay men often have older brothers (CNN) If you're a guy with an older brother, there's an increased chance you're gay. Scientists have noticed this pattern in previous research, but now they think they have a biological explanation as to why, and it starts long before birth. The results were published in the journal PNAS on Monday.  The researchers say that if their findings can be replicated, we may know at least one of the biological reasons some men are gay. Many factors may determine someone's sexual orientation,  but in this case, researchers noticed a pattern that may be linked to something that happens in the womb . The phenomenon is related to a protein linked to the Y chromosome (which women do not have) that is important to male brain development. LGBT Rights Milestones Fast Facts Researchers think it's possible that when a woman gets pregnant with her first boy, this Y-linked protein gets into her bloodstream. The mother's body recognizes the protein as a foreign substance, and her immune system responds , creating antibodies. If enough of these antibodies build up in the woman's body and she gets pregnant with another a boy, they can cross the placental barrier and enter the brain of the second male fetus. Read More "That may alter the functions in the brain , changing the direction of how the male fetus may later develop their sense of attraction," said study author Anthony Bogaert, a Canadian psychologist and professor in the departments of psychology and community health sciences at Brock University. Earlier research has shown that the more older brothers a boy has, the more of a chance that boy will be attracted to men. A 2006 study showed that with each brother, the chance that a man will be gay goes up by about a third, but the researchers didn't determine why that was. Bogaert and his co-authors tested a small group of 142 women and 12 men ages 18 to 80 and found a higher concentration of antibodies to the protein, known as NLGN4Y , in blood samples from women than from men. They found the highest concentration of antibodies to the protein in women with gay younger sons who had older brothers, compared with women who had no sons or who had given birth to only heterosexual boys. Sun, sex and sculpted timber: How architecture shaped Fire Island Pines The study builds on research Bogaert and his co-authors have been exploring for more than 20 years. Since their initial research that noted the trend, other research -- although not all studies -- have detected the phenomenon, even across cultures . One found that a man's chances of being gay increased even if he was raised apart from his older brother. Researchers did not see a similar pattern in families with adopted brothers , so scientists started to think there must be a maternal developmental explanation. The research does not give  a biological explanation for why some men may be bisexual or may not be attracted to anyone at all, nor can it give a biological explanation for gay only children , gay oldest sons or women who are attracted to women. J. Michael Bailey , a professor in the Department of Psychology at Northwestern University, thinks the latest research is important. "It is significant, and I believe science granting agencies should put a high priority into additional research to see if this is true," he said. Bailey was not involved in the new study but has worked on studies that have found genetic factors that may explain some differences in sexual orientations. Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter . Bailey's latest paper, published this month in the journal Nature Research, looked at people's genomes and found several regions  with single-letter DNA changes that were more common among gay men than straight men and may be relevant to the development of sexual orientation. Bailey believes this new study may be even more significant than general genetic findings if the findings can be replicated. "Our studies only show that there may be genes that matter in sexual orientation," he said. "It is not like this study, that shows there is a potential specific mechanism by which sexual orientation may have changed prenatally. This is important work and fascinating if it proves to be true." Clarification: A previous version of this story referred to higher concentrations of the protein instead of higher concentrations of antibodies to the proteins when describing the findings of the study. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                    Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely .   skip to main content                     Toggle navigation       Gallup       What We Do      Close menu      Our Services      Exceptional Workplaces  Create an environment where employees and teams excel.       Employee Engagement    Strengths    Culture    Analytics-Based Hiring    Well-Being    Leadership Development    Diversity & Inclusion    Performance Management    Workforce Analytics          Advanced Analytics  Make accurate decisions to ensure long-term success.       World Poll    Gallup Panel    U.S. Daily Tracking    Gallup Analytics    Business-to-Business    Customer Analytics          CliftonStrengths  Boost performance by maximizing what your employees do best.       For Individuals    For Managers    For Organizations    For Education    How It Works    CliftonStrengths 34 Themes    Builder Initiative          Education  Drive high engagement and performance at your institution.       K-12 Education    Higher Education    Research Partners    Gallup-Purdue Index    CliftonStrengths for Students    Talent-Based Hiring    Gallup Student Poll           Featured Solution      Gallup Access  Manage your workforce through a dynamic online platform.         More from Gallup      News  Read about the attitudes and behaviors of the world's 7 billion citizens.               Reports    Books    Courses & Workshops    Events             View All Services & Solutions       Who We Are  Locations  Careers  Store        Search                Toggle navigation      Overview  Business   Business  Advanced Analytics  B2B  CliftonStrengths  Customer Engagement  Employee Engagement  Leadership  Marketplace  Workplace  Gallup Business Journal  Chairman's Blog    Politics   Politics  Foreign Affairs  Government  The Presidency  Presidential Job Approval Center    World   World  Americas  Asia Pacific  Europe  Middle East & North Africa  Sub-Saharan Africa    Education   Education  Higher Education  K-12    Social & Policy Issues   Social & Policy Issues  Abortion  Crime  Environment  Guns  Healthcare  Immigration  LGBT  Marijuana  Millennials  Race Relations  Taxes  Terrorism  Women  Gallup Vault  Polling Matters    Well-Being   Well-Being  Chronic Disease  Drugs & Alcohol  Health Habits  Health Insurance    Economy   Economy  Entrepreneurship  Personal Finance  Retirement  Small Business    Blogs & Podcast   The Chairman's Blog  Gallup Blog  Gallup Vault  Methodology Blog  Polling Matters  Gallup Podcast      Sign In  Subscribe  About Gallup and Our Services  Access Log In               October 8, 2002    Print  Share on Twitter  Share on Facebook  Share on LinkedIn  Share via Email      What Percentage of the Population Is Gay?  by Jennifer Robison,  Contributing Editor       In his 1948 book, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male ,
Alfred Kinsey shocked the world by announcing that 10% of the male
population is gay. A 1993 Janus Report estimated that nine percent
of men and five percent of women had more than "occasional"
homosexual relationships. The 2000 U.S. Census Bureau found that
homosexual couples constitute less than 1% of American households.
The Family Research Report says "around 2-3% of men, and 2% of
women, are homosexual or bisexual." The National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force estimates three to eight percent of both sexes. So who's
right -- what percentage of the population is homosexual?  It may be that no one will ever know for sure. To some people,
homosexuality is a matter of perception and definition.
Furthermore, many people have trouble admitting their homosexuality
to themselves, much less to a researcher. But when Gallup asked
Americans for their best estimate of the American gay and lesbian
population, the results made all the figures mentioned above look
conservative.  Every Fifth Person -- at Least  In August 2002*, Gallup asked Americans, in an open-ended
format, to estimate the percentage of American men and the
percentage of American women who are homosexual. The average
estimates were that 21% of men are gay and 22% of women are
lesbians. In fact, roughly a quarter of the public thinks more than
25% of men and 25% of women are homosexual. It should be pointed
out, too, that many Americans (at least one in six) could not give
an estimate.  Male respondents tend to give lower estimates of both the male
and female homosexual population than female respondents do. The
average estimates among male respondents are that 16% of men and
21% of women are homosexual. Among female respondents, the average
estimates are that 26% of men and 23% of women are homosexual.
Somewhat interestingly, both sexes believe there are more
homosexuals in the opposite sex than in their own sex.  Portrayals in Pop Culture  Before the 1980s, the few representations of homosexuality in
popular culture tended to consist of potentially dangerous social
deviants (think Norman Bates in Psycho ). Since then,
however, the portrayal of gay characters in pop culture have become
far more numerous and mostly positive. That growing representation
may have spurred growing acceptance -- and inflated population
estimates. In the last 10 years, the number of Americans saying
they feel homosexuality should be considered an acceptable
alternative lifestyle has gone from 38% (June 1992) to 51% (May
2002).  "Seeing ourselves reflected positively encourages gay people to
come out," said Cathy Renna, news media director for the Gay &
Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD). "And when people know
real gay men and lesbians it increases their level of understanding
and acceptance." If you doubt that Ellen, Rosie and others have had
an effect on Americans' acceptance of homosexuality, consider this
-- MTV and Showtime are about to launch a cable channel directed at
the homosexual market. They estimate that gays and lesbians make up
6.5% of television's audience.  Key Points  Whether increased acceptance of homosexuality has led to an
upsurge in the number of positive media portrayals of gay
characters or vice versa, one result seems to be that Americans now
tend to overestimate the gay population in America. While most
expert estimates place America's homosexual population at 10% or
less, Americans tend to guess that the number is higher, around
20%.  *Results based on telephone interviews with 489 (for those
estimating percentages of lesbian women) and 518 (for those
estimating percentages of gay men) conducted May 6-9, 2002. For
results based on the total sample, one can say with 95% confidence
that the maximum margin of sampling error is ±5%.       Get Articles in Related Topics:  Religion and Social Trends      Subscribe to receive weekly Gallup News alerts. Never miss our latest insights.  Sign Up       Recommended    In Depth: Topics A to Z  Gay and Lesbian Rights  Do you think gay or lesbian relations between consenting adults should or should not be legal? As you may know, there has been considerable discussion in the news regarding the rights of homosexual men and women. In general, do you think homosexuals should or should not have equal rights in terms of job opportunities? Do you feel that homosexuality should be considered an acceptable alternative lifestyle or not?   Mar 18, 2003  Teens on Homosexuality: Nature or Nurture?  The question of nature or nurture stands at the very center of many complex issues. Why, for instance, do some children perform better on standardized tests than others do? What causes some Americans to be overweight, while others never gain an ounce? Nowhere is the uncertainty of nature versus nurture more widely discussed than in issues surrounding human sexuality. What do teens think about the possible causes of homosexuality?   Aug 22, 2002  New York Times Policy Focuses Attention on Homosexual Civil Unions  Americans remain slightly more likely to oppose, rather than favor, formalized civil unions between gay and lesbian partners. Support for legal same-sex unions is highest among Americans living on the East and West coasts, among Democrats, among those with higher levels of education, and among younger generations. The issue was recently launched back into the news with The New York Times' decision to include commitment ceremony announcements for gay and lesbian partners along with its traditional wedding announcements in its Sunday paper.       Related News   Jul 2, 2002  Same-Sex Parenting: Does Public Back Rosie?    Feb 19, 2002  Acceptance of Homosexuality: A Youth Movement          Report  Why Higher Ed?  According to the latest Strada-Gallup report, 58% of U.S. adults choose to pursue higher education to get a good job.        Business Journal Apr 4, 2018  4 (More) Ways Banks Can Win and Keep Millennial Customers  Learn how banks can optimize their channel experiences to align them with millennials' expectations.        Hot Topics   Trade  Syria  Immigration  Gun Control  Sexual Harassment  North Korea             October 8, 2002   Gallup  http://news.gallup.com/poll/6961/what-percentage-population-gay.aspx  Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A +1 202.715.3030              Our Company   About Gallup  Locations  George Gallup  Methodology Center  Senior Scientists & Advisers    Topics   Business  Politics  World  Education  Social & Policy Issues  Well-Being  Economy  Blogs  Trends A-Z    More From Gallup   Gallup.com  Exceptional Workplaces  Advanced Analytics  CliftonStrengths  Gallup Access  News  Reports  Books  Courses & Workshops  Events  Shop    Contact Us   Careers  Media Inquiries  Gallup Speakers  Get In Touch  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn  YouTube         Copyright © 2018 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.   Copyright © 2016 Gallup, Inc.  All rights reserved. Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ, Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer, Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc.     Privacy Statement  Legal                                                                                                                                                                               hard data Having Older Brothers Might Increase a Man's Odds of Being Gay It's long been thought that something must happen within the womb. SHARE TWEET Justin Lehmiller Feb 13 2018, 5:00pm Joshua Stitt/Unsplash Why are some people attracted to the opposite sex, whereas others are attracted to the same sex? Scientists have long been puzzled by this question. Although they have developed numerous working theories over the years, definitive evidence has been elusive. However, one long-standing theory just became way more credible.  One of the most robust findings recorded by scientists studying the origins of sexual orientation is something called the fraternal birth order effect . This refers to the idea that the more older brothers a man has, the greater his odds of being gay. However, only biological brothers seem to matter here—there’s no established link for older sisters, adopted brothers, or step-siblings.  Why is that? It has long been thought that something must happen inside the womb the first time a woman carries a male fetus that ultimately affects the development of subsequent male fetuses. Scientists have speculated that perhaps there is some immune reaction taking place inside the mother—specifically, maybe carrying a male fetus leads women to develop certain antibodies that stick around.  This theory, known as the maternal immune hypothesis, makes a lot of intuitive sense. A fetus of the other sex carries foreign substances (also known as antigens) that a women’s body has never seen before—substances that may directly enter her bloodstream during childbirth, thereby stimulating production of antibodies.  More from Tonic: If women are indeed making such antibodies, there’s good reason to believe they could potentially affect a future male fetus, given that products from the mother’s immune system are not only capable of entering the amniotic sac in which fetuses develop, but they can also pass the fetal blood-brain barrier, which means they just might impact the developing brain. And if a woman carries multiple male fetuses, it only seems logical that an immune attack of this sort would become stronger each time.  Although the maternal immune hypothesis has been around for more than two decades, there hasn’t been any direct support for it—at least not until now. A new study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences suggests that there’s something to it.  In this study, researchers took blood samples from 54 mothers who had at least one gay son (about half of whom had at least one older brother), 72 mothers who had at least one heterosexual son (but no gay sons), 16 women with no sons at all, and 12 men. All participants were recruited in Canada and ranged in age from 18 to 80 years old.  Researchers conducted immunological tests on the blood samples, looking specifically for antibodies targeting two proteins (PCDH11Y and NLGN4Y). These proteins are linked to the Y chromosome (meaning they’re only found in biological males) and, further, they are known to play a role in brain development.  Significant results were only found for one of the two proteins: Specifically, mothers of gay sons had higher levels of antibodies against NLGN4Y compared to mothers from both of the control groups (this included women with heterosexual sons and women without any sons). Moreover, mothers of gay sons with older brothers had even higher anti-NLGN4Y levels in their blood than did mothers of gay sons without older brothers.  Interestingly, mothers of gay sons without older brothers possessed more of the NLGN4Y antibodies than did mothers who only had heterosexual sons. So why is that? The researchers suspect that the former group may have included women who miscarried a male fetus in the past, which could have caused them to develop the antibodies.  Although these results are fascinating, we would do well to replicate them before leaping to too many conclusions—we can’t bet the bank on single studies. Also, it’s important to note that even if the findings do hold up, this theory has its limitations. For one thing, not every guy who has a lot of older brothers is gay. For another, it doesn’t tell us anything about the origins of female homosexuality.  The truth of the matter is that the maternal immune hypothesis is probably just one of many potential biological mechanisms that might play a role in the development of sexual orientation. This makes sense when you consider how variable the gay community is in terms of factors such as gender role conformity and sexual position preference. It may very well be that different biological or genetic influences on sexual orientation result in different “types” or “kinds” of homosexuality—a conclusion that previous research has supported .  Any way you look at it, though, these findings are the latest in a growing body of literature that argues against choice and social learning as explanations for homosexuality. Instead, same-sex attraction seems to be something that people are predisposed to as a result of their biology.  Justin Lehmiller is the director of the social psychology program at Ball State University, a research fellow at The Kinsey Institute, and author of the blog Sex and Psychology . Follow him on Twitter @JustinLehmiller . Read This Next: Why Are We Searching for a 'Gay Gene'? SHARE TWEET Tagged: Sex world Sexuality relationships gay Pregnancy parenting body immunity mind Welcome to Club Tonic. BYO Gin. Get in now and we'll send you our five top stories, plus weekly updates. subscribe Stories in health and science – plus real wellness advice for imperfect humans Like Tonic Read Watch Topics Mind Body Science World Guide to Healthcare Race Sex VICE ELSEWHERE VICE Apps VICE on TV VICE Magazine Edition en United States nl Netherlands en United States About Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Use © 2018 VICE Media LLC                              Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                       Fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search   A correlation between fraternal birth order and male sexual orientation has been suggested by research. Ray Blanchard identified the association and referred to it as the fraternal birth order effect . In several studies, the observation is that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother, the greater the probability is that he will have a homosexual  orientation . [1] It has sometimes been called the older brother effect . It has been estimated that 15% of the homosexual demographic is associated with fraternal birth order. [2]     Contents    1  Overview  2  Empirical findings   2.1  Biodemographics  2.2  Quantitative findings  2.3  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism   2.3.1  Birth weight  2.3.2  Handedness  2.3.3  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers    2.4  Ubiquity  2.5  Other findings    3  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism  4  See also  5  Notes  6  References     Overview [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect has been described by one of its proponents as "the most consistent biodemographic correlate of sexual orientation in men". [3] In 1958, it was reported that homosexual men tend to have a greater number of older siblings (i.e., a 'later/higher birth order') than comparable heterosexual men and in 1962, these findings were published in detail. [4] In 1996, Ray Blanchard and Anthony Bogaert demonstrated that the later birth order of homosexual men was solely due to an excess of older brothers and not older sisters. [5] They also showed that each older brother increased the odds of homosexuality in a later-born brother by 33%. [5] Later the same year, Blanchard and Bogaert demonstrated the older brother effect in the Kinsey Interview Data, a "very large and historically significant data base". [6] [7] In a study published in 1998, Blanchard called this phenomenon the fraternal birth order effect . [8]  Research over the years has established several facts. First, homosexual men do tend to have a higher birth order than heterosexual men, and this higher birth order is attributed to homosexual men having greater number of older brothers. [9] According to several studies, each older brother increases a male child's naturally occurring odds of having a homosexual orientation by 28–48%. [8] [10] [11] [12] [13] [note 1] However, the numbers of older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters have no effect on those odds. [9] It has been estimated that approximately one in seven homosexual males owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [16] There seems to be no effect of birth order on sexual orientation in women. [17] [18]  Secondly, the fraternal birth order effect operates through a biological mechanism during prenatal life, not during childhood or adolescence. [7] Direct evidence for this is the fact that the fraternal birth order effect has been found even in males not raised with their biological brothers – it has been determined that biological brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males even if they were reared in different households, whereas non-biological siblings, such as step-brothers or adopted brothers, have no effect on male sexual orientation. [3] Indirect evidence also indicates that the fraternal birth order effect is prenatal and biological in nature rather than postnatal and psychosocial: The fraternal birth order effect has been confirmed to interact with handedness , [19] [7] as the incidence of homosexuality correlated with an increase in older brothers is seen only in right-handed males. [18] [20] [21] [19] Since handedness develops prenatally, [22] this finding indicates that prenatal mechanisms underlie the fraternal birth order effect. [7] It has also been found that homosexual males with older brothers have significantly lower birth weights compared to heterosexual males with older brothers. [23] [24] As birth weight is undeniably prenatally determined, it is known that a common developmental factor that operates before birth necessarily underlies the fraternal birth order effect and male sexual orientation. [25]  Thirdly, the fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in diverse samples such as homosexual males from different races, [26] different cultures, [27] different historical eras, [5] [28] and widely separated geographic regions. [9] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated in places such as Brazil, Canada, Finland, Iran, Italy, The Netherlands, Samoa, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. [9] [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience [5] [30] and representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Empirical findings [ edit ]  Biodemographics [ edit ]  The fraternal birth order effect is a phenomenon that can be described in one of two ways: [34] Older brothers increase the odds of homosexuality in later-born males or, alternatively, homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men. [9] [35] [7] It has been found that the proportion of older brothers (i.e., Older Brothers / All Siblings ) is 31% greater in the sibships of homosexual males than in the sibships of heterosexual males. [9] Alternatively, the ratio of older brothers to other siblings (i.e., Older Brothers / Other Siblings ) is 47% greater for homosexual males than it is for heterosexual males. [9]  After statistically controlling for number of older brothers, homosexual and heterosexual males do not differ in their mean number of older sisters, younger sisters or younger brothers. [14] [9] Older sisters, younger sisters, and younger brothers have no effect on the odds of homosexuality in later born males – they neither enhance nor counteract the fraternal birth order effect. [5] [11] [7] [9] Blanchard and Bogaert (1996) investigated whether homosexual men have a higher mean birth order than heterosexual men primarily because they have more older brothers or because they have more older siblings of both sexes (i.e., both older brothers and older sisters). [5] They confirmed that homosexuality was positively correlated with a man's number of older brothers, not older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers. [5] Multiple studies have since confirmed this finding. [11]  In a few studies, homosexual subjects have occasionally displayed both a larger number of older brothers and a larger number of older sisters in comparison to heterosexual men. This is because a person's number of older brothers and number of older sisters tend to be positively correlated. So, if Proband A has more older brothers than Proband B, chances are that Proband A also has more older sisters than Proband B. [1] [29] These findings of excess of older sisters are hence occasional by-products of homosexual men having an excess of older brothers, are not found as consistently as the excess of older brothers, and thus need not detract from the significance of the fraternal birth order effect. [29] [36] When samples are drawn from populations with relatively high fertility rates, the positive correlation between number of older brothers and older sisters may give the false impression that both the number of older brothers and the number of older sisters are associated with male sexual orientation. Indeed, two samples from the high fertility Samoan population displayed simultaneous fraternal and 'sororal' birth order effects. However, direct comparison of the magnitudes of these two effects showed that the fraternal birth order effect took precedence in the studies. [27] [29] Various studies and meta-analyses have confirmed that only the older brother effect is consistently associated with homosexuality: [35] [29]   A 1998 meta-analysis by Jones and Blanchard investigated whether older sisters have no effect on sexual orientation in later-born males, or simply a weaker effect than older brothers. To this end, they developed competing mathematical models of the two possibilities: they derived two theoretical equations; the first equation applies if sisters have no direct relation to a proband's sexual orientation but brothers do; the second applies if sisters have the same relation to a proband's sexual orientation as do brothers (including no relation). They then compared the fit of these models to the empirical data available at that time and found that the first equation held for homosexual men and the second for heterosexual men. They also concluded that any tendency for homosexual males to be born later among their sisters is, in effect, a statistical artifact of their tendency to be born later among their brothers. [37] [35] [9]  A 2004 meta-analysis involved 10,143 male subjects of which 3181 were homosexual and 6962 were heterosexual. Its results reinforced the conclusion that homosexual men tend to have more older brothers than do heterosexual men, and the conclusion that differences in all other sibship parameters (older sisters, younger sisters, or younger brothers) are secondary consequences of the difference in older brothers. [35] [9] The same conclusions have been reached with analyses of individual rather than aggregate data, and by independent investigators. [35]  A 2015 meta-analysis determined that only the older brother effect/fraternal birth order effect was reliably associated with male sexual orientation across previously published studies. [29] [36]   The fraternal birth order effect is independent of potential confounds such as age, year of birth, and socioeconomic status. [7] It has also been found that the fraternal birth order effect can be demonstrated whether the homosexual and heterosexual groups being compared on older brothers both have large or small family sizes, so long as both groups have the same family size (or can be adjusted to simulate that condition). [9] Additionally, to detect the fraternal birth order effect, it is necessary that family size of homosexual and heterosexual groups are not strongly affected by the various parental strategies (so-called 'stopping rules') of ceasing reproduction after one child, after one male child, or after a child of each sex, because in these particular situations, neither homosexual nor heterosexual males have enough older brothers to make comparisons meaningful. [9] [18] [38] [39] [40]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is not an artifact of higher maternal or paternal age at the time of the proband's birth. [11] [35] This implies that the birth order phenomenon cannot be explained by increased mutation rates in the ova or sperm cells of aging mothers or fathers respectively. [5]  The relation between number of older brothers and male homosexuality is also not an artifact of birth interval. Blanchard and Bogaert (1997) conducted a study to investigate whether homosexual men are, on average, born a shorter time after their next-older siblings than are heterosexual men. They found that mean birth intervals preceding heterosexual and homosexual males were virtually identical. [41]  No type of sibling (i.e., older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers or younger sisters) is reliably related to women's sexual orientation. [7]  Quantitative findings [ edit ]  Research on the fraternal birth order effect has shown that for every older brother a male child has, there is a 33% increase in the naturally occurring odds that the male child being homosexual. [5] [16] [15] The naturally occurring odds of a male child (without any older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. [16] [15] [note 2] Thus, if a male with no older brothers has a 2% chance of being homosexual and the fraternal birth order effect increases those chances by 33% for each older brother, then a male with one older brother has a 2.6% chance of being homosexual; a male with two older brothers has a 3.5% chance, and males with three and four older brothers have a 4.6%, and 6.0% chance, respectively. [14]  Estimates of the proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect have ranged from 15.1% [16] to 28.6%. [42] The 15.1% estimation, if stated in round numbers, means that roughly 1 in 7 gay men owe their sexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [11] [16] Cantor et al. (2002) found that 0% of homosexual men with no older brothers, 24% of homosexual men with one older brother, 43% of homosexual men with two older brothers, and so on, can attribute their homosexual orientation to the fraternal birth order effect. [35] They also showed that the effect of fraternal birth order would exceed all other causes of homosexuality combined in groups of gay men with 3 or more older brothers and would precisely equal all other causes combined in a theoretical group with 2.5 older brothers. [16] Homosexual men who did not acquire their sexual orientation via the fraternal birth order effect (for example, homosexual men with no older brothers) owe their homosexuality to other causes such as certain polymorphic genes (colloquially called "gay genes" ) or prenatal hormone levels during fetal development. [11] [35] [43]  Timing of the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Both direct and indirect evidence have demonstrated that the mechanism by which the fraternal birth order effect operates is prenatal in timing and biological in nature, rather than postnatal in timing or psychosocial in nature. Indirect evidence was found first when it was discovered that the fraternal birth order effect interacts with birth weight. Then, Bogaert (2006) produced direct evidence that the fraternal birth order mechanism is prenatal. Subsequent research related to handedness has further reinforced these findings. [7] Evidence that the fraternal birth order effect reflects events during prenatal life is generally consistent with a lack of evidence that it reflects events during postnatal life. [35]  Birth weight [ edit ]     A newborn being weighed after birth. Birth weight is the body weight of a baby at birth . [44]    The finding that the fraternal birth order mechanism operates during a male's prenatal development in the mother's womb arose unexpectedly, in a study of sexual orientation, birth order, and birth weight. Blanchard and Ellis (2001) studied 3229 adult, homosexual and heterosexual, men and women (the probands) whose mothers knew the sex of every child (or fetus) that they were pregnant with prior to the proband. Information on birth weight, maternal gravidity, and other demographic variables was reported on questionnaires completed by the probands' mothers. [11] The study yielded three main observations:   The heterosexual males with older brothers weighed less at birth than the heterosexual males with older sisters;  The homosexual males with older brothers weighed less than the heterosexual males with older brothers, and:  The homosexual and heterosexual males with no older siblings, or older sisters only, did not differ in birth weight.   Each of these three findings has since been replicated in other studies [35] [24] [45] [46] (and the general finding that boys with older brothers have smaller birth weights than boys with older sisters is in line with earlier studies). [47] [48] [35] These findings suggest that prior male pregnancies influence the development of subsequent male fetuses; that this influence is felt to varying degrees by individual fetuses; and that those fetuses who are most strongly affected by this process, as indicated by their comparatively lower birth weights, are also those most likely to be homosexual. The interaction of fraternal birth order with birth weight (an obviously prenatally determined trait) suggests that the mechanism of the fraternal birth order effect operates before the individual's birth (i.e., in utero ). [11] [35] It also shows that, even at the time of birth, there is a physical marker of sexual orientation (i.e., birth weight) that is related to the number of older brothers. [49] [36]  Handedness [ edit ]     Two boys use their right hands to write. Handedness is the tendency to be more skilled at performing tasks with one hand than the other. The fraternal birth order effect increases the likelihood of homosexuality only in right-handed males.    Blanchard et al. (2006) produced indirect evidence that the fraternal birth order effect is biological rather than psychosocial in nature: They found, in a sample of 3146 men, that the fraternal birth order effect was contingent on handedness: The effect of older brothers on the likelihood of homosexuality only occurred in right-handed males; the effect of older brothers did not alter the likelihood of being gay in left-handed and ambidextrous men. [20] [7] Later, another study found the fraternal birth order effect may be limited to only moderately right handed men, as extreme right-handers also did not display a fraternal birth order effect. [28] [7] The finding that fraternal birth order interacts with handedness has been confirmed by subsequent research. [19] [18] [7] As handedness is developed during prenatal life, [22] [7] this suggests that a prenatal mechanism causes increased homosexuality in right-handed male fetuses with older brothers. [7]  Biological vs. non-biological older brothers [ edit ]  Bogaert (2006) provided a direct test pitting prenatal against postnatal (e.g., social/rearing) mechanisms and sought to determine which of the two account for the fraternal birth order effect. He examined the association between male sexual orientation and biological siblings (i.e., born from the same mother) and non-biological siblings (i.e., adoptive siblings, step-siblings or paternal half-siblings). Whether and how long participants were reared with these siblings was also examined. [3] [49]  If rearing or social factors associated with older brothers underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then all older brothers (both biological and non-biological) reared with the participant should predict sexual orientation because all of these older brothers share the social/rearing environment with their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then only biological older brothers should predict sexual orientation because only biological older brothers share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same biological mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that only biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation. Even when the number of non-biological older brothers significantly exceeded the number of biological older brothers, and hence the opportunity for an effect via being reared with (non-biological) older brothers was high, only the number of biological older brothers and not non-biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men. [3]  Further, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, should predict sexual orientation because rearing time determines the relative opportunity that older brothers have to affect their younger sibling's (postnatal) sociosexual development. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then a postnatal factor such as rearing time with older siblings (be they biological or non-biological) should have no impact on the sexual orientation of younger male siblings. The study found that the amount of time reared with older brothers, either biological or non-biological, neither predicted sexual orientation nor affected the relationship between older brothers and sexual orientation, thereby pointing to a prenatal origin of the fraternal birth order effect. [3]  Finally, if rearing or social factors underlie the fraternal birth order effect, then the number of biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should not predict sexual orientation because they should have no impact on the (postnatal) sociosexual environment of their younger brothers. If a prenatal factor underlies the fraternal birth order effect, then biological older brothers with whom the participants were not reared should still predict sexual orientation because all biological older brothers, even those not reared with the participants, share prenatal characteristics (e.g., gestation by the same mother) with their younger brothers. The study found that the number of biological brothers does predict men's sexual orientation even if the participants were not reared with the biological older brothers. [3]  In summation, it was found that biological older brothers significantly predicted male sexual orientation regardless of whether or how long participants were reared with these brothers whereas the remaining sibling categories, including non-biological older brothers, did not. These results thus support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men [3] [7] [49] and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of the mother's body's “memory” for both male births as well as male gestations (i.e., every instance of being pregnant with a male fetus). [3] So even if a male fetus was not carried to term, he still increases the likelihood of homosexuality in any subsequent male fetuses gestated by the same mother.  Ubiquity [ edit ]  The existence of the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation has been confirmed many times. [7] One approach for establishing the ubiquity of this effect has been to search for it in a variety of sample types. [36] The repeated finding of the fraternal birth order effect in diverse samples shows that the effect is nearly ubiquitous – with the exception of populations where people do not have older brothers. [40] [39] [36]  The fraternal birth order effect has been found in homosexual males from different races, [26] including White, Black, Hispanic, East Indian, Asian, Middle Eastern and Polynesian. [27] The effect has also been found in homosexual males from different historical eras, [5] [28] ranging from participants examined in recent years to participants examined decades ago. [7] [27] [35]  The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual males from different cultures: Despite how variable cultures can be, cross-cultural universals in the development of homosexual males appear to exist. For example, in Western cultures, homosexual males exhibit comparatively more gender-nonconforming behavior during childhood than heterosexual males. [50] Retrospective studies conducted in Brazil, Guatemala, Independent Samoa, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey have found that the same is true of homosexual males raised in these non-Western cultures. [51] [52] [53] [54] Such cross-cultural similarities in childhood behavior support the idea that similar biological influences, which transcend cultural differences, play a role in the development of male homosexuality. This idea would be further supported if it could be demonstrated that causal biological factors, such as the fraternal birth order mechanism (which is biological in nature), are likely to influence the development of male homosexuality in non-Western cultures. Thus, establishing the existence of the fraternal birth order effect — a hypothesized outcome of the fraternal birth order mechanism — in a non-Western culture would further substantiate arguments that similar biological influences underlie the development of homosexuality across cultures. Studies in Western as well as non-Western cultures have demonstrated fraternal birth order effect (as well as fecundity effects) in relation to male homosexuality. The cross-cultural consistency with which these effects have been documented is consistent with the conclusion that culturally invariant, biological processes underlie the development of homosexuality in males. [27]  The fraternal birth order effect has also been demonstrated in widely separated geographic regions and in countries such as Brazil, [36] Canada, [6] Finland, [29] Iran, [9] Italy, [55] The Netherlands, [56] Independent Samoa, [27] Spain, [57] Turkey, [58] the United Kingdom, [59] and the United States. [60] The effect has additionally been observed in participants examined during childhood as well as adulthood [56] [49] [29] and in patients as well as in non-patient volunteers. [27] The fraternal birth order effect has been demonstrated by Blanchard and colleagues as well as by independent researchers. [31] [55] [59] [13] [60] [61] [62] [30] [27] The demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect in meta-analysis of studies by Blanchard and colleagues, [35] [29] meta-analysis of studies by independent investigators [29] and studies by both Blanchard and other investigators shows that studies of the fraternal birth order effect have been free from experimenter bias . [29] The effect has also been demonstrated in homosexual men from convenience samples [5] [30] and in representative, national probability samples. [31] [32] [33]  Most research on the fraternal birth order effect has been carried out on homosexual/gay men (i.e., males who are cisgender and attracted to adult men). [1] [63] Two chromosomally male groups that are attracted to males but differ most strongly from typical homosexual/gay men are androphilic male-to-female transsexuals (i.e., transgender chromosomal males who are attracted to adult men) and same-sex attracted pedophilic-hebephilic men (i.e., cisgender chromosomal males who are attracted to non-adult males). [64] [63]  The fraternal birth order effect has been observed in androphilic male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals: MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in men (also called "homosexual transsexuals") have a greater number of older brothers than MtF transsexuals who are sexually interested in women (also called "heterosexual transsexuals"). This has been reported in samples from Canada, [65] the United Kingdom, [61] the Netherlands, [66] and Polynesia. [67]  Three studies have investigated whether sexual orientation also correlates with fraternal birth order in men attracted to physically immature males. [63] One study (Bogaert et al., 1997) found that homosexual-bisexual male pedophiles had a later general birth order than heterosexual male pedophiles and this late birth order was primarily due to the homosexual-bisexual group being born later among their brothers than later among their sisters. [68] Another study (Blanchard and Bogaert, 1998) did not confirm a later fraternal birth order for men with sexual offenses against prepubescent boys or girls, but did confirm it for men with offenses against pubescent boys or girls. [64] The inconsistency of these findings regarding the correlation of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order in pedophiles may be related to methodological problems in the two studies. The first study was a retrospective study of sex offenders, which included only those subjects whose clinical charts happened to contain birth order data so the results of the study may have been affected by selection bias . The second study was a reanalysis of archived data from a classic study of sexual offenders from the year 1965. There was minimal recoverable information regarding the subjects' offense histories, and there is a possibility that the sexual preferences of the pedophiles in the study were not accurately classified from the available information. [63]  Blanchard et al. (2000) therefore conducted a study in which data were collected with the specific purpose of examining the relation of fraternal birth order to sexual orientation in homosexual, bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles. Each type of pedophilic group was compared with a control group that consisted of gynephilic men (i.e., men attracted to adult females). The study found that homosexual pedophiles had more older brothers than the gynephilic control group while the bisexual and heterosexual pedophiles did not. These results confirm that fraternal birth order correlates with sexual orientation in pedophiles, as it does in teleiophiles (i.e., people exclusively attracted to adults). [63] The results also confirm that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia per se: Previous studies had established that the fraternal birth order effect affects what gender a man is sexually attracted to; Blanchard et al. (2000) additionally investigated if fraternal birth order also affects the age of persons to whom a man is attracted. Results from the study indicate that fraternal birth order does not affect the age of preferred erotic targets and that fraternal birth order does not correlate with pedophilia. So the fraternal birth order mechanism only causes males to be attracted to other males; whatever mechanism causes males to be pedophilic as opposed to teleiophilic (i.e., attracted to adults) is different from the fraternal birth order mechanism itself. [11] [63]  Other than fraternal birth order, no common feature has been identified in the developmental histories or family demographics of androphiles and pedophiles, while key features distinguish the two groups, for example, most androphilic males display gender non-conformity during childhood whereas same-sex attracted pedophiles do not. [63] [69] [70] To prevent misunderstanding or misuse of their studies on fraternal birth order in pedophiles, researchers have stressed that any conclusion that homosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with androphilia does not imply that ordinary homosexual men (androphiles) are likely to molest boys, any more than the conclusion that heterosexual pedophilia shares an etiological factor with gynephilia would imply that ordinary heterosexual men (gynephiles) are likely to molest girls. [1] [63]  The finding of the fraternal birth order effect in cisgender and transgender male androphiles, men attracted to boys and those attracted to adult men—same-sex attracted groups who differ as widely as possible in their own characteristics and in the characteristics of their desired partners—would suggest that fraternal birth order (or the underlying variable it reflects) may be the first universal factor to be identified in development of same-sex attraction in males. [63]  Other findings [ edit ]  Bearman and Brückner (2002) argued that studies showing a fraternal birth order effect have used nonrepresentative samples and/or indirect reports on siblings' sexual orientation. Their analysis, focusing on opposite-sex twins, did not find an association "between same-sex attraction and number of older siblings, older brothers, or older sisters". [71] A study by Francis (2008), using the same Add Health survey but with broader analysis, saw a very weak correlation of male same-sex attraction with having multiple older brothers (but did find a significant negative correlation of male same-sex attraction with having older sisters i.e., those who experienced a non-zero level of same-sex attraction were significantly less likely to have older sisters). [72]  The failure of these studies to demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect has been attributed to their methodological flaws. [46] Although they utilized large adolescent samples, the low base rates of same-sex attraction and behaviour in the population resulted in sample sizes that were too small for assessing the relation of birth order to sexual orientation. [49] The fraternal birth order effect may also have been obscured in these studies due to their use of different methods of sexual orientation classification and their imprecise measures of sibships. [49] Ray Blanchard explained that the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect depends partly on the adequate matching of the mean family size of the homosexual and heterosexual study groups and noted that in the two studies above, the mean family size of the homosexual groups was significantly smaller than that of the heterosexual comparison groups. [49] [34] [note 3] Specifically, heterosexual males had larger numbers of siblings overall than the homosexual males which may have obscured the analyses of group differences in older brothers and prevented the demonstration of the fraternal birth order effect. [49] Researchers have thus emphasized the necessity of comparing groups on measures of mean family size and have suggested that, in the two studies, an alternative birth order metric that controlled for sibship size would have produced findings consistent with the fraternal birth order effect. [49] [34] Since the publication of Bearman and Bruckner's study in 2002, studies that used representative national probability samples and direct reports on siblings' sexual orientation have found the fraternal birth order effect. [31] [42]  Currin et al. (2015) carried out a study investigating the existence of the fraternal birth order effect in a variety of sexual orientation dimensions — namely, identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior — whereas previous research studied only one such dimension (identity). Participants in the study were split into two groups: a "heterosexual group" and a "non-heterosexual" group. To determine what label participants used to identify their sexual orientation, participants were asked, "How would you classify your sexual orientation?" and selected from one of five options (heterosexual, mostly heterosexual, bisexual, mostly gay/lesbian, gay/lesbian). People who selected "heterosexual" were place in the heterosexual group, whereas people selecting "gay/lesbian" were placed in the non-heterosexual group. To assess sexual attraction, participants were asked, "How sexually attracted are you to men?" and selected from a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (very much). Participants were also asked "How sexually attracted are you to women?" and were presented with the same Likert scale. People who selected 1 (not at all) when answering the same sex sexual attraction question were placed in the heterosexual group. People who selected 2 or greater were placed in the non-heterosexual group.  To assess sexual behavior, participants were asked, "What is the total number of male sexual partners you have had?" and "What is the total number of female sexual partners you have had?" Sexual partner was defined as someone with whom the participant had penile–vaginal penetration, oral sex, anal sex, and/or mutual masturbation. Individuals who identified having any same-sex sexual partner (i.e., 1 or more) were placed in the non-heterosexual group while individuals who did not identify having a same-sex sexual partner were placed in the heterosexual group. [15] To assess sexual fantasy, participants were asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve men?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. Each participant was also asked "What percent of your sexual fantasies during masturbation involve women?" and rated the question from 0% to 100%. If an individual endorsed having any same-sex sexual fantasies at all (i.e., 1% or greater), they were placed in the non-heterosexual group, otherwise they were placed in the heterosexual group. Using these criteria for sexual orientation identity, attraction, fantasies, and behavior, Currin et al. (2015) were unable to demonstrate the effect for any dimensions in their sample of 722 right-handed men (of which 500 were classified as heterosexual and 122 were classified as non-heterosexual), although the study did adjust for family size differences between the two groups. [15] A 2017 meta-analysis analyzed studies about the fraternal birth order effect including Currin et al. (2015). The meta-analysis had a total sample of 7140 homosexual males and 12,837 heterosexual males. The results of the meta-analysis confirmed the reliability of the fraternal birth order effect. [9]  Theories about the fraternal birth order mechanism [ edit ]  Anthony Bogaert's work involving adoptees concludes that the effect is not due to being raised with older brothers, but is hypothesized to have something to do with changes induced in the mother's body when gestating a boy that affects subsequent sons. This is because the effect is present regardless of whether or not the older brothers are raised in the same family environment with the boy. There is no effect when the number of older brothers is increased by adopted brothers or stepbrothers. An in-utero maternal immune response has been hypothesized for this effect. [11] [5] [35] [73] Male fetuses produce H-Y antigens which may be involved in the sexual differentiation of vertebrates. [73]  McConaghy (2006) concluded that the influence of birth order on degree of homosexual feelings was due not to a biological, but to a social process, in a study in which he investigated birth order in men and women who anonymously reported "some" homosexual feelings, few of whom identified as homosexual. He found a fraternal birth order effect in men who reported homosexual feelings and when comparing the strength of the effect and degree of homosexual feelings (rather than homosexual identity or homosexual behavior) he found no relationship between the two. [74] However, multiple studies have demonstrated that the fraternal birth order effect does not operate through social or postnatal (e.g., learning or rearing or environmental) mechanisms; rather it is biological in nature and operates prenatally. [3] [7] [20] [75] [76] It is also known that the fraternal birth order effect on male sexual orientation is unaffected by family dynamics, living with older brothers or learning. [76]  See also [ edit ]   Biology and sexual orientation  Birth order  Handedness and sexual orientation  Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation   Notes [ edit ]     ^  The naturally occurring odds of a male child (with no older brothers) being homosexual are estimated to be 2%. Due to the fraternal birth order effect, those naturally occurring odds are increased to 2.6% in a male child with one older brother; a male child with two older brothers will have a 3.5% chance of being homosexual; with three, and four older brothers, the chances are increased to 4.6%, and 6.0%, respectively. [14] [15] [11]  ^  This proved to be a close estimation by Cantor et al. (2002) as a subsequent study, Blanchard and Bogaert (2004), found that the observed prevalence of homosexuality among males with no older brothers was 2.18%.%. [42] [35]  ^  According to Ray Blanchard , the demonstrability of the fraternal birth order effect partly depends upon proper matching of homosexual and heterosexual study groups with respect to mean family size. If the homosexual study group has too few siblings, in comparison to the heterosexual study group, the homosexual group will tend to show no difference in number of older brothers and may show a scarcity of other sibling types (most commonly younger brothers and younger sisters). If the homosexual study group has too many siblings, it will not only show the expected excess of older brothers but may also show an excess of other sibling types (most commonly older sisters). In his three-part article, Blanchard first demonstrated the aforementioned outcomes using purposely mismatched groups selected from archived data sets. In the second part, Blanchard presented two different methods for transforming raw sibling data. Both methods intended to "produce family-size-corrected variables for each of the four original sibling parameters (older brothers, older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters)." [34] Consequently, both methods were successful in demonstrating the fraternal birth order effect in the purposely mismatched groups. In the third part of the article, Blanchard surveyed studies about fraternal birth order and found two studies that did not demonstrate the fraternal birth order effect in their homosexual groups. In both studies, the collective findings for older sisters, younger brothers, and younger sisters as well as individual findings for the four sibling classes suggested that mean family size of the homosexual study groups was comparatively smaller to that of the heterosexual groups in both studies. [34]     References [ edit ]    ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard R (1997). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual versus heterosexual males and females". Annu Rev Sex Res . 8 : 27–67. PMID  10051890 .   ^  Valenzuela C (2009). "Sexual Orientation, Handedness, Sex Ratio, and Fetomaternal Tolerance-Rejection". Biological Research . 43 (3): 347–356. doi : 10.4067/s0716-97602010000300012 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Bogaert AF (July 2006). "Biological versus nonbiological older brothers and men's sexual orientation" . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10771–4. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310771B . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0511152103 . PMC  1502306  . PMID  16807297 .   ^  Slater E (13 January 1962). "Birth order and maternal age of homosexuals". Lancet . 1 (7220): 69–71. doi : 10.1016/S0140-6736(62)91719-1 . PMID  13913808 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  Blanchard R, Bogaert AF (January 1996). "Homosexuality in men and number of older brothers" . Am J Psychiatry . 153 (1): 27–31. doi : 10.1176/ajp.153.1.27 . PMID  8540587 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (December 1996). "Biodemographic comparisons of homosexual and heterosexual men in the Kinsey interview data". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (6): 551–79. doi : 10.1007/bf02437839 . PMID  8931880 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q  r  Bogaert AF; Skorska M (2011). "Sexual orientation, fraternal birth order, and the maternal immune hypothesis: a review". Front Neuroendocrinol . 32 (2): 247–54. doi : 10.1016/j.yfrne.2011.02.004 . PMID  21315103 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Siegelman M, Dickey R, Klassen P (October 1998). "The relation of birth order to sexual orientation in men and women". J Biosoc Sci . 30 (4): 511–9. doi : 10.1017/S0021932098005112 . PMID  9818557 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  Blanchard R (12 Jun 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Family Size, and Male Homosexuality: Meta-Analysis of Studies Spanning 25 Years". Arch. Sex. Behav . doi : 10.1007/s10508-017-1007-4 . PMID  28608293 .   ^  Ellis L, Blanchard R (2001). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, and maternal miscarriages in homosexual and heterosexual men and women". Personality and Individual Differences . 30 (4): 543–552. doi : 10.1016/S0191-8869(00)00051-9 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R (September 2001). "Fraternal birth order and the maternal immune hypothesis of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 40 (2): 105–14. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2001.1681 . PMID  11534970 .   ^  Puts DA, Jordan CL, Breedlove SM (July 2006). "O brother, where art thou? The fraternal birth-order effect on male sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A . 103 (28): 10531–2. Bibcode : 2006PNAS..10310531P . doi : 10.1073/pnas.0604102103 . PMC  1502267  . PMID  16815969 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q.; Clarke K.; Morera T. (2009). "Hair whorl direction and sexual orientation in human males". Behavioral Neuroscience . 123 (2): 252–256. doi : 10.1037/a0014816 . PMID  19331448 .   ^ a  b  c  Bailey JM; Vasey PL; Diamond LM; Breedlove SM; Vilain E; Epprecht M (Sep 2016). "Sexual Orientation, Controversy, and Science". Psychol Sci Public Interest . 17 (2): 45–101. doi : 10.1177/1529100616637616 . PMID  27113562 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Joseph M. Currin; et al. (2015). "Multidimensional Assessment of Sexual Orientation and the Fraternal Birth Order Effect". Psychology of Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity . 2 (2): 113–122. doi : 10.1037/sgd0000103 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Cantor JM, Blanchard R, Paterson AD, Bogaert AF (February 2002). "How many gay men owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order?"  (PDF) . Arch Sex Behav . 31 (1): 63–71. doi : 10.1023/A:1014031201935 . PMID  11910793 .   ^  Bogaert AF (February 2005). "Sibling sex ratio and sexual orientation in men and women: new tests in two national probability samples". Arch Sex Behav . 34 (1): 111–6. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1005-9 . PMID  15772774 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Blanchard, R; Lippa, RA (April 2007). "Birth order, sibling sex ratio, handedness, and sexual orientation of male and female participants in a BBC internet research project". Arch Sex Behav . 36 (2): 163–76. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9159-7 . PMID  17345165 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard, Ray (January 2008). "Review and theory of handedness, birth order, and homosexuality in men" . Laterality . 13 (1): 51–70. doi : 10.1080/13576500701710432 . PMID  18050001 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R, Cantor JM, Bogaert AF, Breedlove SM, Ellis L (March 2006). "Interaction of fraternal birth order and handedness in the development of male homosexuality" . Horm Behav . 49 (3): 405–14. doi : 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.09.002 . PMID  16246335 .   ^  Blanchard R (2007). "Sex ratio of older siblings in heterosexual and homosexual, right-handed and non-right-handed men". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 37 (6): 977–81. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9119-2 . PMID  17186124 .   ^ a  b  Hepper PG; Shahidullah S; White R (1991). "Handedness in the human fetus". Neuropsychologia . 29 (11): 1107–11. doi : 10.1016/0028-3932(91)90080-R . PMID  1775228 .   ^  Blanchard R; Ellis L (Jul 2001). "Birth weight, sexual orientation and the sex of preceding siblings". J. Biosoc. Sci . Cambridge University Press. 33 (3): 451–67. doi : 10.1017/S0021932001004515 . PMID  11446404 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Cavacas A; Allin S; Bradley SJ; Schachter DC (2002). "Fraternal birth order and birth weight in probably prehomosexual feminine boys" . Horm Behav . Elsevier Science (USA). 41 (3): 321–7. doi : 10.1006/hbeh.2002.1765 . PMID  11971666 .   ^  Rahman, Q (2005). "The neurodevelopment of human sexual orientation". Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews . 29 (7): 1057–66. doi : 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2005.03.002 . PMID  16143171 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (October 1998). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual and heterosexual non-white men". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (5): 467–73. doi : 10.1023/A:1018752513198 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  9795727 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  VanderLaan DP; Vasey PL (June 2011). "Male sexual orientation in independent Samoa: evidence for fraternal birth order and maternal fecundity effects". Arch Sex Behav . 40 (3): 495–503. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9576-5 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  20039114 .   ^ a  b  c  Bogaert AF; Blanchard R; Crosthwait LE (October 2007). "Interaction of birth order, handedness, and sexual orientation in the Kinsey interview data". Behav Neurosci . 121 (5): 845–53. doi : 10.1037/0735-7044.121.5.845 . PMID  17907817 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  Blanchard R; VanderLaan DP (Jul 2015). "Commentary on Kishida and Rahman (2015), Including a Meta-analysis of Relevant Studies on Fraternal Birth Order and Sexual Orientation in Men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1503–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-015-0555-8 . PMID  25940737 .   ^ a  b  c  Williams TJ; Pepitone ME; Christensen SE; Cooke BM; Huberman AD; Breedlove NJ; Breedlove TJ; Jordan CL; Breedlove SM (Mar 2000). "Finger-length ratios and sexual orientation"  (PDF) . Nature . 404 (6777): 455–6. Bibcode : 2000Natur.404..455W . doi : 10.1038/35006555 . PMID  10761903 . Retrieved 17 August 2016 .   ^ a  b  c  d  Bogaert AF (2003). "Number of older brothers and sexual orientation: New tests and the attraction/behavior distinction in two national probability samples". J Pers Soc Psychol . 84 (3): 644–52. doi : 10.1037/0022-3514.84.3.644 . PMID  12635923 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF (2000). "Birth order and sexual orientation in a national probability sample". J. Sex Res . 37 (4): 361–8. doi : 10.1080/00224490009552059 .   ^ a  b  Bogaert AF; Cairney J (Jan 2004). "The interaction of birth order and parental age on sexual orientation: an examination in two samples". J Biosoc Sci . 36 (1): 19–37. doi : 10.1017/s0021932004006030 . PMID  14989529 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  Blanchard R (2014). "Detecting and correcting for family size differences in the study of sexual orientation and fraternal birth order". Archives of Sexual Behavior . 43 (5): 845–52. doi : 10.1007/s10508-013-0245-3 . PMID  24578105 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k  l  m  n  o  p  Blanchard R (September 2004). "Quantitative and theoretical analyses of the relation between older brothers and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 230 (2): 173–87. doi : 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.04.021 . PMID  15302549 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  Vanderlaan DP; Blanchard R; Zucker KJ; Massuda R; Fontanari AMV; Borba AO; Costa AB; Schneider MA; Mueller A; Soll BMB; Schwarz K; Da Silva DC; Lobato MIR (Jul 2017). "Birth order and androphilic male-to-female transsexualism in Brazil". J Biosoc Sci . 49 (4): 527–535. doi : 10.1017/S0021932016000584 . PMID  27817755 .   ^  Jones MB; Blanchard R (Aug 1998). "Birth order and male homosexuality: extension of Slater's index". Hum Biol . 70 (4): 775–87. PMID  9686486 .   ^  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jul 2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in relation to sexual orientation in China". Soc Behav Pers . 42 (6): 995–1002. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.6.995 .   ^ a  b  Xu Y; Zheng Y (Jan 2017). "Fraternal Birth Order, Handedness, and Sexual Orientation in a Chinese Population". J. Sex Res . 54 (1): 10–18. doi : 10.1080/00224499.2015.1104530 . PMID  26689787 .   ^ a  b  Kenneth J. Zucker ; et al. (2007). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in homosexual transsexual South Korean men: Effects of the male-preference stopping rule". Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences . 61 (5): 529–533. doi : 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01703.x . PMID  17875032 .  CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. ( link )  ^  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (Jan 1997). "The relation of closed birth intervals to the sex of the preceding child and the sexual orientation of the succeeding child". J Biosoc Sci . 29 (1): 111–8. doi : 10.1017/s0021932097001119 . PMID  9881124 .   ^ a  b  c  Blanchard R; Bogaert AF (2004). "Proportion of homosexual men who owe their sexual orientation to fraternal birth order: An estimate based on two national probability samples". Am J Hum Biol . 16 (2): 151–7. doi : 10.1002/ajhb.20006 . PMID  14994314 .   ^  Jannini EA; Blanchard R; Camperio-Ciani A; Bancroft J (Oct 2010). "Male homosexuality: nature or culture?". J Sex Med . 7 (10): 3245–53. doi : 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.02024.x . PMID  21053405 .   ^  Definitions  Archived April 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . from Georgia Department of Public Health. Date: 12/04/2008. Original citation: "Birthweight: Infant's weight recorded at the time of birth"  ^  Côté K; Blanchard R; Lalumière ML (Jul 2003). "The influence of birth order on birth weight: does the sex of preceding siblings matter?". J Biosoc Sci . 35 (3): 455–62. PMID  12887223 .   ^ a  b  VanderLaan DP; Blanchard R; Wood H; Garzon LC; Zucker KJ (2015). "Birth weight and two possible types of maternal effects on male sexual orientation: A clinical study of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service". Developmental Psychobiology . 57 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1002/dev.21254 . PMID  25345970 .   ^  Magnus P; Berg K; Bjerkedal T (Oct 1985). "The association of parity and birth weight: testing the sensitization hypothesis". Early Hum Dev . 12 (1): 49–54. doi : 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90136-7 . PMID  4064997 .   ^  Trotnow S; Bregulla K; Flügel K (Sep 1976). "Studies on the birth-weight and the size of the new-born child with reference to the parity of the mother (author's transl)". Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. (in German). 36 (9): 744–50. PMID  976720 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Doug P. VanderLaan; Ray Blanchard; Hayley Wood; Kenneth J. Zucker (2014). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio of children and adolescents referred to a Gender Identity Service" . PLOS One . 9 (3): e90257. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...990257V . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0090257 . PMC  3961213  . PMID  24651045 .   ^  Bailey JM; Zucker KJ (1995). "Childhood sex-typed behavior and sexual orientation: A conceptual analysis and quantitative review". Dev. Psychol . 31 (1): 43–55. doi : 10.1037/0012-1649.31.1.43 .   ^  Bartlett NH; Vasey PL (Dec 2005). "A retrospective study of childhood gender-atypical behavior in Samoan fa'afafine". Arch. Sex. Behav . 35 (6): 659–66. doi : 10.1007/s10508-006-9055-1 . PMID  16909317 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Feb 2005). "Cultural universals and differences in male homosexuality: The case of a Brazilian fishing village". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 103–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1004-x . PMID  15772773 .   ^  Cardoso FL (Oct 2009). "Recalled sex-typed behavior in childhood and sports' preferences in adulthood of heterosexual, bisexual, and homosexual men from Brazil, Turkey, and Thailand". Arch. Sex. Behav . 38 (5): 726–36. doi : 10.1007/s10508-008-9312-6 . PMID  18340519 .   ^  Whitam FL; Zent M (Oct 1984). "A cross-cultural assessment of early cross-gender behavior and familial factors in male homosexuality". Arch. Sex. Behav . 13 (5): 427–39. doi : 10.1007/bf01541428 . PMID  6517684 .   ^ a  b  Camperio-Ciani A; Corna F; Capiluppi C (Nov 2004). "Evidence for maternally inherited factors favouring male homosexuality and promoting female fecundity" . Proc Biol Sci . 271 (1554): 2217–21. doi : 10.1098/rspb.2004.2872 . PMC  1691850  . PMID  15539346 .   ^ a  b  Schagen SE; Delemarre-van de Waal HA; Blanchard R; Cohen-Kettenis PT (Jun 2012). "Sibling sex ratio and birth order in early-onset gender dysphoric adolescents" . Arch. Sex. Behav . Springer US. 41 (3): 541–9. doi : 10.1007/s10508-011-9777-6 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMC  3338001  . PMID  21674256 .   ^  Gómez-Gil E; Esteva I; Carrasco R; Almaraz MC; Pasaro E; Salamero M; Guillamon A (Jun 2011). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in Spanish transsexuals". Arch. Sex. Behav . 40 (3): 505–10. doi : 10.1007/s10508-010-9614-3 . PMID  20232130 .   ^  Bozkurt A; Bozkurt OH; Sonmez I (Jul 2015). "Birth Order and Sibling Sex Ratio in a Population with High Fertility: Are Turkish Male to Female Transsexuals Different?". Arch. Sex. Behav . 44 (5): 1331–7. doi : 10.1007/s10508-014-0425-9 . PMID  25351529 .   ^ a  b  King M; Green J; Osborn DP; Arkell J; Hetherton J; Pereira E (Feb 2005). "Family size in white gay and heterosexual men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 34 (1): 117–22. doi : 10.1007/s10508-005-1006-8 . PMID  15772775 .   ^ a  b  Schwartz G; Kim RM; Kolundzija AB; Rieger G; Sanders AR (Feb 2010). "Biodemographic and physical correlates of sexual orientation in men". Arch. Sex. Behav . 39 (1): 93–109. doi : 10.1007/s10508-009-9499-1 . PMID  19387815 .   ^ a  b  Green R (July 2000). "Birth order and ratio of brothers to sisters in transsexuals". Psychol Med . 30 (4): 789–95. doi : 10.1017/S0033291799001932 . PMID  11037086 .   ^  Robinson SJ; Manning JT (Sep 2000). "The ratio of 2nd to 4th digit length and male homosexuality". Evol Hum Behav . 21 (5): 333–345. doi : 10.1016/s1090-5138(00)00052-0 . PMID  11053694 .   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  Blanchard R ; Barbaree HE; Bogaert AF; Dickey R; Klassen P; Kuban ME; Zucker KJ (2000). "Fraternal birth order and sexual orientation in pedophiles". Arch Sex Behav . 29 (5): 463–78. doi : 10.1023/A:1001943719964 . PMID  10983250 .   ^ a  b  Blanchard R ; Bogaert AF (1998). "Birth order in homosexual versus heterosexual sex offenders against children, pubescents, and adults". Arch Sex Behav . 27 (6): 595–603. doi : 10.1023/A:1018773117741 . PMID  9883307 .   ^  Blanchard R, Sheridan PM (1992). "Sibship size, sibling sex ratio, birth order, and parental age in homosexual and nonhomosexual gender dysphorics". Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases . 180 : 40–7. doi : 10.1097/00005053-199201000-00009 .   ^  Blanchard R, Zucker KJ, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren LJ, Bailey JM (October 1996). "Birth order and sibling sex ratio in two samples of Dutch gender-dysphoric homosexual males". Arch Sex Behav . 25 (5): 495–514. doi : 10.1007/BF02437544 . PMID  8899142 .   ^  Poasa KH, Blanchard R, Zucker KJ (2004). "Birth order in transgendered males from Polynesia: a quantitative study of Samoan fa'afāfine". J Sex Marital Ther . 30 (1): 13–23. doi : 10.1080/00926230490247110 . PMID  14660290 .   ^  Bogaert Anthony F.; et al. (1997). "Pedophilia, sexual orientation, and birth order" . Journal of Abnormal Psychology . 106 (2): 331–335. doi : 10.1037/0021-843x.106.2.331 .   ^  Freund K; Blanchard R (1987). "Feminine gender identity and physical aggressiveness in heterosexual and homosexual pedophiles". J Sex Marital Ther . 13 (1): 25–34. doi : 10.1080/00926238708403876 . PMID  3573049 .   ^  Freund K; Scher H; Chan S; Ben-Aron M (1982). "Experimental analysis of pedophilia". Behav Res Ther . 20 (2): 105–12. doi : 10.1016/0005-7967(82)90110-3 . PMID  7073641 .   ^  Bearman, Peter; Brückner, Hannah (2002). "Opposite-sex twins and adolescent same-sex attraction"  (PDF) . American Journal of Sociology . 107 (5): 1179–1205. doi : 10.1086/341906 .   ^  Francis, Andrew M. (2008). "Family and sexual orientation: the family-demographic correlates of homosexuality in men and women"  (PDF) . Journal of Sex Research . 45 (4): 371–377. doi : 10.1080/00224490802398357 . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2009-06-16.   ^ a  b  Blanchard R, Klassen P (April 1997). "H-Y antigen and homosexuality in men" . J. Theor. Biol . 185 (3): 373–8. doi : 10.1006/jtbi.1996.0315 . PMID  9156085 .   ^  McConaghy N, Hadzi-Pavlovic D, Stevens C, Manicavasagar V, Buhrich N, Vollmer-Conna U (2006). "Fraternal birth order and ratio of heterosexual/homosexual feelings in women and men". J Homosex . 51 (4): 161–74. doi : 10.1300/J082v51n04_09 . PMID  17135133 .   ^  Bogaert AF (April 2003). "Interaction of older brothers and sex-typing in the prediction of sexual orientation in men". Arch Sex Behav . 32 (2): 129–34. doi : 10.1023/A:1022827524721 . ISSN  1573-2800 . PMID  12710827 .   ^ a  b  Rahman Q; Wilson G (2005). Born Gay: The Psychobiology of Sex Orientation . London: Peter Owen Publishers. ISBN  0720613094 .          Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fraternal_birth_order_and_male_sexual_orientation&oldid=832758952 "  Categories : Human development Human sexuality Sibling Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de)      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages    العربية বাংলা Español Polski Tagalog Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文   Edit links        This page was last edited on 27 March 2018, at 21:03.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                 Whoa there!  Looks like you're already verified.  If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email.  {* resendLink *} Please resend verification.     Thanks for verifying your email address  You're now logged in.  LINK YOUR ACCOUNT FOR PREMIUM ACCESS  Are you already a home delivery subscriber for ajc.com?  Yes, Link My Account No, I'm good      Change password {* newPasswordForm *}
		            {* newPassword *}
		            {* newPasswordConfirm *}
		            {* submitButton *}
		        {* /newPasswordForm *}     Your password has been changed  Password has been successfully updated.  Sign in      Email sent   We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.     Create a new password  We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
		        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
		        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
		        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Create a new password  We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.  Close         Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}            Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}            Sign In       OR     Sign in using your AJC.com profile  Need a Profile? Register Now. {* #userInformationForm *} *EMAIL {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *} *PASSWORD  Forgot your password? {* traditionalSignIn_password *}

          {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
        {* /userInformationForm *}   Sign in using your existing account {* loginWidget *}         You're Almost Done!  Please confirm the information below before signing in.  *Required {* #socialRegistrationForm *}
		            {* socialRegistration_displayName *}
		            {* socialRegistration_emailAddress *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* socialRegistration_signInButton *}
		        {* /socialRegistrationForm *}     Register  *Required {* #registrationForm *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_emailAddress *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_password *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordConfirm *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_displayName *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* createAccountButton *}
		        {* /registrationForm *}     Create a New Account  *Required {* #registrationFormBlank *}
		
		            {* traditionalRegistration_emailAddressBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_passwordConfirmBlank *}
		            {* traditionalRegistration_displayName *} By submitting your registration information, you agree to our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy . {* createAccountButton *}
		        {* /registrationForm *}     Just One More Thing...  We have sent you a verification email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your AJC.com profile.  If you do not receive the verification message within a few minutes of signing up, please check your Spam or Junk folder.  Close      Thank you for registering!  We look forward to seeing you on AJC.com frequently. Visit us and sign in to update your profile, receive the latest news and keep up to date with mobile alerts.  Click here to return to the page you were visiting.      Create a new password  Don't worry, it happens. We'll send you a link to create a new password. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
		        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
		        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
		        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Email sent  We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.  Close    {* mergeAccounts *}    Sign in to complete account merge {* #tradAuthenticateMergeForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
		            {* mergePassword *}
		            {* backButton *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}
		        {* /tradAuthenticateMergeForm *}      Resend Email Verification   Click submit to receive another verification email {* #resendVerificationForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}   {* /resendVerificationForm *}      Your Verification Email Has Been Sent    Check your email for a verification link   Close       Thanks for verifying your email address.  You're now logged in.   Close        Sign In  It looks like you are already verified. If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email. {* #userInformationForm *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_emailAddress *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_password *}
		            {* traditionalSignIn_signInButton *}  Use another account  {* /userInformationForm *}      Change password {* newPasswordForm *}
            {* newPassword *}
            {* newPasswordConfirm *}
            {* submitButton *}
        {* /newPasswordForm *}     Your password has been changed  Password has been successfully updated.  Sign in      Email sent   We have sent you an email with a link to change your password.     Create a new password  We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one. {* #forgotPasswordForm *}
        {* forgotPassword_emailAddress *}
        {* forgotPassword_sendButton *}
        {* /forgotPasswordForm *}     Create a new password  We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.  Close      Thanks for verifying your email address.  You're now logged in.    LINK YOUR ACCOUNT FOR PREMIUM ACCESS  Are you already a home delivery subscriber for ajc.com?  Yes, Link My Account  No, I'm good       {% include "includes/auth/janrain/signIn_traditional.html"  with message='It looks like you are already verified. If you still have trouble signing in, you probably need a new confirmation link email. ' %}                          Our Products    Your AJC, your way. Explore these products from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.    AJC.com Get Atlanta's News Now    AJC access ATL Find Fun Things to Do    myAJC Explore Exclusive Digital Extras and More    AJC ePaper Read Today's Paper     AJC Jobs  Contact Us     65         6      open search  clear       Subscribe now  As low as 99¢       Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out               Open menu              open search  clear        65         6     Subscribe now  As low as 99¢          close menu   Subscribe        Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out       close subnav  open subnav     Log Out           Home    News    close subnav    open subnav          All News     Local News     Obituaries     News Video     Education     Business     Politics     Technology     Nation & World     Crime & Safety     Offbeat     Podcasts     Atlanta Weather     Atlanta Pollen Count     News Blogs     AJC Investigations     Political        Insider     Get Schooled    In the News     Atlanta Watering Restrictions     Traffic: Construction Alert     Ga. Public School Ratings     Atlanta Gas        Prices     Breakdown: Murder Below the Gnat Line        Sports    close subnav    open subnav          All Sports     Braves / MLB     Falcons /  NFL     Hawks / NBA     Atlanta United / MLS     High Schools     Georgia Tech / ACC     Georgia Colleges     Georgia Bulldogs     SEC Country     Stats / Scores     Podcasts     Sports Video     Sports Blogs     Braves     Falcons     Hawks    In the News     Sports Scores     Atlanta Dream     Golf     NASCAR        Neighborhood    close subnav    open subnav          All Neighborhood     Moving to Atlanta     Buckhead     Decatur     DeKalb     Buford     Peachtree City     Gwinnett County     Intown Atlanta     Marietta     Roswell     Sandy Springs     Smyrna         Life    close subnav    open subnav          All Life     Celebrities     Home & Garden     Weddings & Celebrations     Health     Travel     Parenting     Movies & TV     Home Design Ideas     Arts & Culture     Food & Drink     Music     Find It     My Atlanta     Atlanta Events     Atlanta        Restaurants     Atlanta        Shopping    In the News     Summer in Atlanta     Games     AJC Peachtree        Road Race        Things to do    close subnav    open subnav          All Things to Do     Events in Atlanta     My Atlanta     Arts & Culture     Movie Showtimes     Radio & TV     Food & Drink     Music     Shopping     Games     Blogs     Atlanta        Restaurants     Music Scene     Arts &        Culture    In the News     Upcoming        Movies     Living Intown: BeltLine     Horoscopes        Politics    close subnav    open subnav          Issues     Insider     Legislature     Voices     Politifact     National     Take Action     Politically Georgia Voices     Jay Bookman     Kyle Wingfield     Maureen Downey     Mike Luckovich        More    close subnav    open subnav          Newsletters     Customer Care     Contact the AJC     Shopping     Games     Podcasts     AJC Jobs     AJC Cars     Kudzu     AJC Cup     AJC ePaper     Clark Howard     AJC Store     Today's Buzz     Buzz Blog     Radio &        TV Talk     News to Me    Inside AJC     Movies     Atlanta's        Top Workplaces     Find a        Garage Sale     RSS Feeds         65     Atlanta, GA 
				30303            6   Traffic Conditions         Follow us:   Facebook    Twitter   Top     Full Site Index |  Visitor Agreement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Subscribe   ©2018 Cox Media Group         Shortcuts    Home & Garden    Atlanta Jobs    Find A Car    Classifieds    Obituaries    Family-placed Notices    Contact Us/Subscribe    Customer Care    Advertise With Us    Digital Products    AJC Store     EM-dummyText Insert Code Block here     Your AJC, your way. Explore these products from The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.   AJC  Access Atlanta  myAJC  my account              Subscribe now  As low as 99¢       Log in      Log in to Manage your Profile and Account   Create your account   Receive up-to-date newsletters   Set up text alerts   Sign up and manage subscriptions     Log In             Log Out             Having more older brothers increases men’s odds of being gay, study confirms                 0                                    Having more older brothers increases men’s odds of being gay, study confirms                  0           Fiza Pirani  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution       1:56 p.m Tuesday, Dec. 12, 2017   National/World News                      0            News              Gay men have, on average, a greater number of older brothers compared with their heterosexual counterparts.        » RELATED: Black, gay and proud: one man’s quest to thrive    The pattern, referred to as the fraternal birth order effect, isn’t new  to scientists, but researchers from Canada’s Brock University, the University of Toronto and from Harvard Medical School now believe they have a biological explanation.   According to the study, published in the journal PNAS Monday, maternal antibodies in the womb may play a role in the process.    » RELATED: Flashback Fotos: Atlanta's Gay Pride through the years    Researchers believe that when a woman gets pregnant with her first boy, a protein linked to the male Y chromosome (which is only produced in males) enters her bloodstream.   Her body then creates antibodies, because it recognizes the protein as a foreign substance.       With every male baby the woman has, the build-up of antibodies increases. At high concentrations, it’s possible that the antibodies enter the brain of the second male fetus.    » RELATED: Georgia school named one of the 10 most LGBTQ-friendly colleges in the country    "That may alter the functions in the brain, changing the direction of how the male fetus may later develop their sense of attraction," study author Anthony Bogaert of Canada’s Brock University, told CNN .   To test this, the scientists collected blood samples from 142 pregnant women and tested them for antibodies to the brain protein known as NLGN4Y (also only produced in males).    » RELATED: Photos: 2017 Atlanta Pride Parade     Here’s what they found:     Mothers of homosexual sons with older male siblings had the most increased concentrations of antibodies against the protein.  Mothers of homosexual sons with no older male siblings had the second-most increased levels of antibodies against the protein.  Mothers of heterosexual sons had lower levels of the antibodies.  Mothers without sons had the lowest level of the antibodies.    Bogaert and his team have been exploring the subject for more than 20 years and have found the pattern exists across cultures.   In a research project 10 years ago , his team of psychologists and immunologists tested antibody reactivity to two male-only proteins in 16 women without sons, 72 mothers with heterosexual sons, 31 mothers with gay sons and no older brothers, 23 mothers of gay sons with older brothers, and a control group of 12 men.   That research showed the immune response to the proteins and found that mothers of gay sons, especially those with older brothers, had significantly higher concentrations of the antibody than the other women.    » RELATED: Organizers say Pride march likely to set new attendance record    But psychologists warned that the effects were modest and even if a male child has multiple male siblings, the likelihood of that child being gay is still small.   "The implications of this [new] study, especially if and when it is replicated by an independent team, are profound," Bogaert  said in a university news release . "Along with more deeply understanding the exact origin of the older brother effect, it helps solidify the idea that, at least in men, there's a strong biological basis to sexual orientation” and “adds to the growing scientific consensus that homosexuality is not a choice, but rather an innate predisposition.”   But, he added, though the research is getting closer to finding a mechanism, “I wouldn’t say we’ve solved the fraternal birth order effect puzzle.”    Read the full study at pnas.org.     Related         You don’t have to #DeleteFacebook — 7 tips to lock down your privacy without leaving social media          Kroger to hire 11,000 supermarket workers: Will also raise wages          What is #EqualPayDay? Atlanta businesses donate 20 percent of sales to highlight gender pay gap          Shelter cats across the country are learning to high-five to increase their adoption chances          Amal Clooney is on cover of Vogue; talks about twins’ first word          Who was Omar Sharif? Google honors 'Lawrence of Arabia' actor          They were holding hands after the Miami Beach Gay Pride Parade. Then four men attacked them          Watch ‘Wheel of Fortune’ contestant lose $7,100 after mispronunciation flub          Why the Obamas won’t get an invitation to the royal wedding                     View Comments 0             Sign up for e-newsletters  Want more news?   Sign up for free e-newsletters to get more of AJC delivered to your inbox.   EM-dummyText Insert Code Block here                      Most Read     Minute by minute updates in the Tex McIver murder trial    Hartsfield-Jackson leader asked to resign from Atlanta mayor's cabinet    Breaking News: Livestream video          Things To Do      Add Event +  See More                                Weather and Traffic       65  30303                    6                    Most Read     Minute by minute updates in the Tex McIver murder trial    Hartsfield-Jackson leader asked to resign from Atlanta mayor's cabinet    Breaking News: Livestream video          Things To Do      Add Event +  See More                        More from ajc.com    Topics         News     Sports     Neighborhoods     Life     Things to do     Blogs     More                  Sports    Report: Oregon extends scholarship offer to South Dakota transfer Matt Mooney                Sports    5-star Ashton Hagans on Kentucky commitment: ‘It’s what I’ve been waiting on’                Sports    Dan Mullen wants Florida’s Orange & Blue game to set spring attendance record                Sports    Alabama players arrive at White House, look sharp before meeting President Trump                Sports    BREAKING: Auburn lands offensive line commitment from Georgia powerhouse                Sports    Which player’s injury is most damaging to LSU baseball team?               Follow us:   Facebook    Twitter   Top    Full Site Index |  Visitor Agreement | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Subscribe   ©2018 Cox Media Group      Close   Sections news sports life neighborhoods shop things to do Shortcuts ajc obituaries family-placed notices classifieds homefinder atlanta jobs find your car manage your profile contact us customer care advertise with us digital products Partners find & save coupons kudzu savings.com valpak myajc Fun game center Member Center sign in manage your profile Utilities archives weather traffic sitemap Follow Us facebook twitter instagram youtube pinterest RSS Feeds    PRODUCTS From The Atlanta Journal-Constitution   AJC.com - Get Atlanta's News Now  AJC Access Atlanta - Find Fun Things to Do  myAJC - Explore Exclusive Digital Extras and More  AJC ePaper - Read Today's Paper      Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter   © 2017 Cox Media Group .                                                By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy , and understand your options regarding Ad Choices .                                                Learn about careers at Cox Media Group .                                               HOME      FORECAST    Local  Graphical   Aviation  Marine  Rivers and Lakes  Hurricanes  Severe Weather  Fire Weather  Sun/Moon  Long Range Forecasts  Climate Prediction      PAST WEATHER    Past Weather  Heating/Cooling Days  Monthly Temperatures  Records  Astronomical Data     WEATHER SAFETY    Safety Campaigns  Air Quality  Beach Hazards  Cold/Windchill  Boating  Drought  Floods  Fog  Heat  Hurricanes  Lightning  Rip Currents  Space  Thunderstorms, Hail  Tornadoes  Tsunamis  Ultraviolet (UV)  Wildland Fires  Wind  Winter Weather      INFORMATION    Owlie Kid's Page  Weather-Ready Nation  Wireless Emergency Alerts  Brochures, Posters, etc.  Cooperative Observers  Daily Briefing   Damage/Fatality/Injury Statistics  Forecast Models  GIS Data Portal  NOAA Weather Radio  Publications  SKYWARN Storm Spotters  StormReady  TsunamiReady       EDUCATION     Be a Force of Nature  NWS Education Home      SEARCH         Search For      NWS   All NOAA           ABOUT     About NWS  Organization  Strategic Plan  For NWS Employees   International  National Centers  Products and Services   Careers   Contact Us  Glossary             How Dangerous is Lightning?   Lightning is a major cause of storm related                         deaths in  the                         U.S.                         A lightning strike can result                         in a cardiac arrest (heart stopping) at the time of the                         injury, although some victims may appear to have a delayed                         death a few days later if they are resuscitated but have                         suffered irreversible brain damage.  According to the NWS Storm Data , over the last    30 years (1987-2016)   the U.S. has averaged 47 reported lightning fatalities per year.  Only about 10% of people who are struck by lightning    are  killed, leaving 90% with various degrees of disability.  More recently, in the last 10 years (2007-2016), the U.S. has averaged 30 lightning fatalities.     Odds of Becoming a Lightning Victim  (based on    averages for 2007-2016 )    Estimated    U.S.    population as of 2017  325,000,000    Average Number of Deaths Reported  30  Estimated number of Injuries  270  300    Odds    of being struck  in a given year (estimated total deaths + estimated   injuries)  1/1,083,000    Odds    of being struck in your lifetime (Est. 80 years)  1/13,500    Odds you will be affected by someone  struck (10 people for every    1 struck)  1/1,350                   US Dept of Commerce  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  National Weather Service 1325 East West Highway Silver Spring, MD 20910 Web Master's Email: Contact Us    Disclaimer  Information Quality  Help  Glossary    Privacy Policy  Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)  About Us  Career Opportunities                  Accessibility links   Skip to article  Skip to navigation        Telegraph.co.uk               Tuesday 10 April 2018                 Home  Video  News  World  Sport  Business  Money  Comment  Culture  Travel  Life  Women  Fashion  Luxury  Tech  Film            Politics  Investigations  Obits  Education  Science  Earth  Weather  Health  Royal  Celebrity  Defence  Scotland      Advertisement            Home »  News »  Health »  Health News             Having more older brothers increases likelihood of being gay  The more older brothers a man has the greater the chance of them being gay, 
  research suggests.            Scientists believe they have found a link between the number of brothers and male has and the likelihood of being gay  Photo: Alamy               By Claire Carter   8:02AM BST 05 Sep 2013      Scientists say the results of the study prove the impact of nature over nurture on male sexuality. The increased chance of being gay is believed to occur because women mount an immune response when pregnant with a boy, which attacks part of the foetus’ brain linked to sexual orientation. This immune response increases with every male child. Researchers collected data from almost 1,000 men, including some who had been adopted or brought up with stepbrothers and stepsisters. They found having stepbrothers did not have an impact on sexual orientation, but having biological brothers did – even if they were brought up separately. Scientists from Brock University in Ontario claim this shows the influence of nature over nurture on sexuality, and brings traditional arguments into question. They found each older brother raised the odds that a man was homosexual by a third.  Related Articles     Taking Ritalin gave me my life back   05 Sep 2013     The benefits of height   08 Sep 2013     Rudd launches passionate defence of gay marriage   03 Sep 2013     I understand gay people's fears, says Chief Rabbi Lord Sacks   25 Aug 2013     Britain's homophobia needs to be tackled before Russia's   21 Aug 2013     It is thought that when a mother is pregnant with a boy she produces antibodies which attack the part of the unborn baby’s brain that controls sexuality. The strength of this ‘immune response’ is said to increase with each son, raising the odds of homosexuality. But scientists found no direct link between girls having lots of sisters and being lesbians. The study has been printed by New Scientist, which show the impact of siblings on a person’s psychological traits – where for example older siblings are said to be more intelligent but more cautious than younger brothers and sisters.               Health News       News »    UK News »    Health »           In Health News            Weird X-rays              Life begins at 70              Living proof: the secret of healthy ageing              Why olive oil should be kept out of the frying pan              Ebola outbreak in pictures                        Top news galleries       Woody Allen's 30 best one-liners          Comedy    Martin Chilton selects 30 great one-liners from the comedian and film 
  star Woody Allen       The best British political insults          Culture   A hilarious history of political insults and putdowns, from Churchill to 
  Corbyn       Culture stars who died in 2016          Culture News   We celebrate and remember the culture stars who have passed away in 2016       US Presidents: 30 great one-liners          Books   Great quotes from White House incumbents: will Donald Trump be joining them?       100 funny jokes by 100 comedians          Comedy   One hundred whip-smart wisecracks       History's greatest conspiracy theories           From global warming to 9/11, Shakespeare to Elvis, Diana to JFK, peak oil to 
  Roswell, conspiracy theories abound.       Grand stand views of London            In pics: Stunning aerial shots of London's football stadia by 
  photographer Jason Hawkes       Russia's abandoned space shuttles            In pics: The crumbling remains of the Soviet Union's space programme       Home-made in China           Ambitious Chinese inventors take on crazy do-it-yourself projects       Sinkholes around the world            In pics: Sinkholes, craters and collapsed roads around the world   Comments           Advertisement                            Advertisement            Latest Video»            Large rat climbs on sleeping commuter             Teen pepper-sprayed at Trump rally             Disabled great-grandfather denied stairlift and forced to crawl             Elderly wombat rescued after being attacked             EgyptAir crew finally arrive in Cairo            Sponsored   When media meets medicine                More from the web            Advertisement        Advertisement              More from the web                  More from the web                        World News           The latest world news    View         US News           Latest and breaking stories from the United States    View         Film           All the latest film trailers, reviews and features    View         Football           Catch up on all the latest football news and results    View              Back to top      HOME  News  UK News  Politics   Long Reads   Wikileaks  Jobs     World News  Europe  USA  China   Royal Family News   Celebrity news  Dating     Finance  Education  Defence   Weird News   Editor's Choice  Financial Services     Pictures  Video  Matt  Alex   Comment   Blogs  Crossword     Contact us  Privacy and Cookies  Advertising  Fantasy Football   Tickets    Announcements  Reader Prints        Follow Us  Apps  Epaper  Expat    Promotions  Subscriber  Syndication        © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018  Terms and Conditions   Today's News  Archive  Style Book  Weather Forecast                                          We use cookies to provide you with a better onsite experience. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies in accordance with our Cookie Policy . Skip to main content Subscribe Menu Scientific American  English Cart 0 Sign In | Register  Email: Password: Forgot password? Login Not yet registered? Search Subscribe English Español العربية Other Editions Close Search Close Search (examples: physics, climate change, etc.) The Sciences Mind Health Tech Sustainability Education Video Podcasts Blogs Store Subscribe Current Issue Cart Sign In Register Share Latest The Sciences Having Older Brothers Increases a Man's Odds of Being Gay By Tracy Staedter on June 27, 2006 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Reddit Email Print Share via Google+ Stumble Upon  Advertisement  The number of biological older brothers a boy's mother has carried--whether they live with him in the same household or not--affects his chances of being gay. The findings, reported this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, by Anthony Bogaert of Brock University, lend credence to the theory that it's not the social or rearing factors that influence a man's sexual orientation, but rather prenatal mechanisms that begin in the womb. The idea that prenatal mechanisms may influence sexual orientation has been around for a couple of decades. In 1996, Bogaert along with colleague Ray Blanchard correlated sexual orientation in men with the number of older brothers, but it wasn't clear if that influence was occurring because the boys shared the same household or because they had shared the same womb. In the new study, Bogaert pitted prenatal against postnatal by examining four samples of homosexual and heterosexual men, for a total of 944 participants. The data for three of the samples had been collected previously, and included detailed information about the men's sexual orientation, as well as their family life. Because most of the men from these three study groups came from unbroken families, Bogaert looked at a fourth group, composed of men who had been adopted or raised with half- or step-siblings. He also gathered data from this group about how long members lived with each sibling and whether they had brothers or sisters with whom they had never lived. He reasoned that if the social or rearing factor theories were correct, he would expect to see certain things. First, it wouldn't matter whether a gay man's older brothers had been biologically related or not, the social influence would be there. Second, the amount of time the young boy lived with his older brothers, biological or not, should affect his sexual orientation. Third, if the boy did not live with older brothers, then the numbers should not impact his sexual preference. Bogaert found the opposite to be true. First, he found that only the number of biological older brothers predicted sexual orientation in men--even when the number of non-biological older brothers was significantly higher. Second, his study showed that the amount of time reared with older brothers--either related or not--did not predict a young boy's becoming homosexual. And surprisingly, Bogaert discovered that even if a young man did not grow up in the same house as his older brothers, the fact that he had older biological brothers increased his odds of being gay. The fact that the common denominator between the older and younger biological brothers is the mother hints at a prenatal influence on sexual orientation. What it could be is still a mystery. But one theory suggests that after delivering a boy, a woman's immune system produces antibodies to male-specific proteins. During subsequent pregnancies the mother's placenta may deliver the antibodies to the fetus, possibly affecting its development.     Rights & Permissions   ABOUT THE AUTHOR(S) Tracy Staedter Recent Articles Brazilian Trees May Harbor Millions of Unidentified Species of Bacteria Seismic Shaking Could Make Oil Extraction Easier Flaws in Placenta May Be Early Sign of Autism Advertisement Read This Next March 2005 February 21, 2005 Mind Do Gays Have a Choice? February 1, 2006  —  Robert Epstein  Newsletter Get smart. Sign up for our email newsletter. Sign Up Every Issue. Every Year. 1845 - Present Neuroscience. Evolution. Health. Chemistry. Physics. Technology. Subscribe Now! Having Older Brothers Increases a Man's Odds of Being Gay Follow us instagram soundcloud youtube twitter facebook rss   Store  About   Press Room   More      FAQs  Contact Us  Site Map      Advertise  Special Ad Sections  SA Custom Media      Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Use of Cookies   Scientific American is part of Springer Nature, which owns or has commercial relations with thousands of scientific publications (many of them can be found at www.springernature.com/us ). Scientific American maintains a strict policy of editorial independence in reporting developments in science to our readers. © 2018 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Big Questions. Surprising Theories. Learn More                                               Subscribe    Sign In                    Home       Contact SFGATE    Classifieds    About SFGATE    About SFGATE  FAQ  SFGate Newsletters  SFGate Staff  Careers  Site Index  Hearst      Ad Choices    About The Chronicle    About The Chronicle  The Chronicle Staff  Become a Subscriber  Manage Your Subscription  Customer Service  Careers  e-edition  Back Copies  Chronicle in Education  Corrections      Advertise with Us    More on Advertising    More on Advertising  Place a Classified Ad  About Our Ads  Public Notices  Local Business Directory  Place an Obituary  Gate List      Store    Privacy policy    Chronicle Archives    Terms of Use    Newsletters    Get news alerts            SFGate Customer support       Get VIP access with SF Chronicle Membership       Get SFGate newsletters for the latest from the Bay       Check out the Top 100 Bay Area restaurants          Local       Bay Area & State News    Traffic    Weather & Storms    Crime    Earthquakes    Obituaries    California Wildfires    Expensive SF    Arrest Records    Video            Memory boxes capture Afghans’ pain of war, attempt to heal       Man pleads not guilty to threatening women in Rep. Jackie       Can Tyler Beede join short list of Giants pitchers to win their       Wiener scales back bill that would allow taller housing near          News       Education    Nation    World    Politics    Sponsored: Clean Energy CA            The Latest: Protesters, Russian 'troll' watch Zuckerberg       Actor T.J. Miller charged with making bomb report on train       Sen. Elizabeth Warren to join Cordray on campaign trail       AP PHOTOS: Israeli cafe brings Holocaust survivors together          Sports       49ers    Raiders    Giants    A's    Warriors    Quakes    Golf    Sports Calendar    NFL    MLB    NBA    College    Preps    Outdoors            Warriors sign Quinn Cook to multi-year contract       Giants’ bats stay cold in loss to Diamondbacks       Giants 2014 first-rounder Tyler Beede to make big-league debut       Kevon Looney thriving as Warriors’ small-ball center          Real Estate       The Walk-Through    New Homes    Open Homes    Luxury    Rentals    Mortgage Rates    Commercial    Place an ad    Home Guides    On the Block Blog            Hot Property: Rejuvenated Oakland Foursquare blends classic       There’s 30-foot-tall bamboo growing inside this $11.85M       On the market for the first time in over 75 years—a       Walk-through: Elegant Piedmont Mediterranean brimming with          Business       Reviews    Technology    The Tech Chronicles    Jobs    Real Estate    Public Notices    Sponsored Content    VisionSF            Goldman’s new hiring push in SF dumps dress code for kombucha       Business News Roundup, April 10       San Jose homes jump $800 a day; Wozniak off Facebook; Apple’s       ICYMI: #DeleteFacebook, Virgin Galactic’s spaceship, USA Today          A&E;       The Daily Dish    Movies    Music & Nightlife    Performance    Art    Comics    Events    Books    TV    Horoscope    Crosswords & Puzzles    Things To Do            Jon Hamm and Rosamund Pike shine in confusing yet satisfying       The latest from Dear Abby       Reno-Tahoe Nightlife       Krysten Ritter, David Tennant wow fans at Silicon Valley Comic          Food       Restaurants    Wine    The Press    Top 100 Restaurants    Chronicle Wine Competition    Reservations    Beer News    Inside Scoop SF    Healthy Eating    Food critic Michael Bauer            The best restaurants to dine alone in SF, according to Yelp      How to explore Los Gatos through wine (The Press)       A Sonic in Mississippi will not serve customers smoking weed,       Beer in the Bay: Green Flash's future murky after sale and          Living       Reviews    Home & Garden    Animals    Style    Cannabis    LGBT    Mommy Files    Parenting    Sponsored Content    Outdoors    Health    Education    Parties            Seth Meyers shares dramatic story of wife delivering baby in       Northern California's sea otters are springing back. Here's where       Stylish tips from a plant trend-setter’s garden       Our favorite Bay Area Instagrams from 'miracle March'          Travel       Monterey-Carmel    Weekend Getaways    Wine Country    Napa    Reno-Tahoe    Hawaii    Mexico    SF Insider: Things to do    Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips            Travel Troubleshooter: Did hurricane blow away my refund?      How to explore Los Gatos through wine (The Press)       California’s Legoland finishes castle hotel (out of real       Suite Spot: Low-key luxury in Lodi wine country          Obituaries       Obituaries    Place an Obituary    Pets Remembered            The Latest: Gorbachev fears US-Russian confrontation       Pioneering black choreographer, director Donald McKayle dies       Report: Austrian Holocaust denier Gerd Honsik dead at 76       Prolific voice actor and comedian Chuck McCann dies at 83            Cars       Dealers    Car Blog    My Ride    Al's Road to the Big Game    Sell Your Car            Turning off the heater helps Tesla set record for EV Cannonball       Napa 'Porsche' may be the priciest Craigslist rust pile ever       Hellcat doing 160 MPH is too fast for cop, but then driver's luck       Francophile reminisces about family memories in Citroen          Jobs       This Week's Ads    SFGATE & Chronicle Jobs    Advertise    Salary Wizard    Get To Work            What to do when your interviews don’t produce job offers       Are you a problem solver or a job seeker?       How do explain job hopping?       How to discuss money during the interview          Classifieds    Chronicle       Latest columns    Michael Bauer    Leah Garchik    Bruce Jenkins    Esther Mobley    Ann Killion    Otis R. Taylor Jr.    Thomas Lee    Matier & Ross    Heather Knight    Kathleen Pender    Scott Ostler            Special Report: Forgotten Survivors of AIDS       Rising reality: Managing rising sea levels       Michael Bauer's Top 100 Restaurants                Menu Sections                            https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Boy-s-odds-of-being-gay-traced-to-womb-Study-2494005.php     Boy's odds of being gay traced to womb / Study looks anew at puzzling role of brothers' birth order    Sabin Russell, Chronicle Medical Writer   Published 4:00 am, Tuesday, June 27, 2006                                                                        A boy's chances of growing up gay increase with the number of older brothers he has, and the Canadian researcher who spotted the trend a decade ago now believes he is closer to explaining why: It all starts in the womb.   Brock University psychologist Anthony Bogaert first reported in 1996 the startling finding that a boy's probability of growing up gay increases by about one-third with each older brother in his family. It's a subtle phenomenon -- nearly all boys even in large families still grow up straight -- but subsequent research has affirmed that the "fraternal birth order effect" is real.   Since that discovery, researchers have been trying to figure out what might explain it. The most likely answer, they thought, had something to do with how younger brothers are raised -- perhaps having many older brothers drives the youngest to adopt a different sex role.     But in a study released Monday by the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , Bogaert unearthed another surprise. The sexual orientation of younger brothers appears to be established before birth.       LATEST SFGATE VIDEOS          Now Playing:            Now Playing   SFPD announces arrests in suspected burglary ring  SFPD      'Alien' at Silicon Valley Comic Con  San Francisco Chronicle      New York Fire Department video shows Trump Tower burning  San Francisco Chronicle      Toys "R" Us closure in Emeryville  Ted Andersen, SFGATE      Late season storm hits Bay Area  Douglas Zimmerman, SF Gate      Daniel Mengden on his start Thursday  Susan Slusser      Daniel Mengden on his start Thursday  San Francisco Chronicle      Virgin Galactic conducts first powered flight of new spaceship  Virgin Galactic      Eagle captured on nest camera during earthquake  Explore.org      Giants Beat Mariners 10-1  San Francisco Chronicle           "These results provide evidence that a prenatal mechanism ... affects men's sexual orientation development," he wrote.   Bogaert came to his latest conclusion in a study involving the birth order and family history of 944 men -- about half identifying as straight and the other half gay or bisexual.   In one analysis, he examined the fraternal birth order effect in families in which unrelated older brothers were added to the mix through remarriage of divorced couples or through adoption. In short, if there was something about growing up with a lot of older brothers that raised the chances of a younger boy being gay, it did not show up in these blended families of stepbrothers, half-brothers and adoptees.     Bogaert also examined families in which biologically related brothers were raised separately by families after divorce. No matter where the boys were raised -- in small or large families -- the only factor that showed the elevated chance of growing up gay was having older biological brothers.   By ruling out child-raising factors and ruling in biological factors, Bogaert concluded that the results "support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men."   The finding is consistent with -- but does not prove -- a theory that some male homosexuality may be caused by exposure in the womb to maternal antibodies created in the mother's blood during previous delivery of male children.   Although the placenta provides a barrier between the blood of mother and fetus, during childbirth there is an "inevitable" mixing of maternal and newborn blood, wrote Michigan State University neuroscientist Marc Breedlove , in a commentary accompanying Bogaert's article.   The theory suggests that mothers during childbirth may develop antibodies to proteins made by their firstborn son's Y chromosome, and subsequent pregnancies may stir up those antibodies in an immune reaction that affects the development of a male fetus. "Whether this is really what is happening ... remains to be seen, but it is provocative hypothesis," said Breedlove.   So far, scientists have found no similar relationship between birth order and the probability that a girl will grow up to be lesbian. That could be because a female baby has the same double X chromosomes as her mother and is less likely to provoke an immune reaction during childbirth.   Breedlove stressed in an interview Monday that these biological "perturbations" possibly affecting male fetuses should not be confused with disease or a birth defect. They are simply biological effects that steer development. "It just means there is a variation," he said.   Breedlove said that he is surprised that Bogaert's original findings about the fraternal birth order effect are not more widely known, because the work is so interesting and has been replicated by other researchers. One reason may be that homosexuality occurs in about 4 to 5 percent of the population, so the increase noted among boys with several older brothers is a small effect involving a small percentage of all people.   Similarly surprising research has found that the fraternal birth order effect is limited to younger boys who are right-handed. In other words, if a younger boy has many older brothers but is left-handed, he does not have an elevated chance of being gay.   "We never dreamed of such an association," said Breedlove, a co-author of that study.   The right-handed exception to the fraternal birth order effect was particularly surprising because other research had previously uncovered another puzzler: Both men and women who are left-handed are slightly more likely to be gay.                                                 Most Popular        1   Teen kicked off plane for throwing up     2   How to check if your Facebook data was harvested by Cambridge...     3   ‘Roller-coaster ride’ of rain expected across Bay Area...     4   Opinion: Trump melts down after Cohen raid - and only hurts...     5   Berkeley's beloved Virginia Bakery closing     6   Burning Man founder Larry Harvey hospitalized after massive...     7   Oakland home by same architect who designed Monterey Aquarium...     8   Man nearly stabbed to death after group blocks car near SF’s...     9   Watch as a silo demolition goes awry in Denmark     10   Her surgery was supposed to be routine. Instead, this Russian...                LATEST NEWS       Ex-'Silicon Valley' star charged with making bomb report  Beloved Berkeley bakery closing after 65 years  Opinion: Trump meltdown after Cohen raid only hurts himself  Warriors sign Curry's fill-in to multi-year contract  HBO drama filming Season 2 in Monterey this week  Seth Meyers' wife gives birth in lobby of apartment building  Map shows how men out-earn women in each state  Cal Poly fraternity suspended for blackface incident            THE CHRONICLE'S VISIONSF       Inspiring Leadership with Purpose  Learn about visionary Bay Area business leaders who strive to make the world a better place.                 View Comments        © 2018 Hearst Communications, Inc.                      Logo  Return to Top    About   Our Company  The Press: Guide to Wine Country  Green State: Cannabis Culture  Careers  Advertising  Ad Choices  Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights     Contact   Customer Service  Newsroom Contacts     Connect   Sign up for Email  Alerts  Facebook  Twitter  Pinterest   Google  Instagram     Subscribe   SFChronicle.com  App  e-edition  The Chronicle Archives  Subscription Offers  Store  Subscriber Services     Hearst Newspapers  © Copyright Hearst Communications, Inc.                                          Close            Skip to main content                 switch to the US edition     switch to the UK edition     switch to the Australia edition     switch to the International edition     current edition: US edition    The Guardian - Back to home           Make a contribution   Subscribe   Find a job  Jobs    Sign in    Comment activity    Edit profile    Email preferences    Change password    Sign out     My account   Search      News    Opinion    Sport    Culture    Lifestyle          Show More          News    US news    World news    Environment    Soccer    US politics    Business    Tech    Science    Homelessness       Opinion    The Guardian view    Columnists    Letters    Opinion videos    Cartoons       Sport    Soccer    NFL    Tennis    MLB    MLS    NBA    NHL       Culture    Film    Books    Music    Art & design    TV & radio    Stage    Classical    Games       Lifestyle    Fashion    Food    Recipes    Love & sex    Home & garden    Health & fitness    Family    Travel    Money               What term do you want to search?     Search with google        Become a supporter    Subscribe    Sign in/up     My account    Comment activity    Edit profile    Email preferences    Change password    Sign out         US edition     switch to the UK edition     switch to the Australia edition     switch to the International edition        Jobs    The Guardian app    Video    Podcasts    Pictures    Newsletters    Digital archive    Crosswords         Facebook         Twitter      Jobs           UK    UK politics    Education    Media    Society    Law    Scotland    Wales    Northern Ireland     More                                 Sexuality     The Observer       Is 10% of the population really gay?      Drawing on the widest survey of sexual behaviour since the Kinsey Report, David Spiegelhalter, in his book Sex By Numbers, answers key questions about our private lives. Here he reveals how Kinsey’s contested claim that 10% of us are gay is actually close to the mark       David Spiegelhalter   Sun 5 Apr 2015 03.00 EDT   Last modified on Wed 21 Mar 2018 20.15 EDT           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share via Email                  View more sharing options      Share on LinkedIn           Share on Pinterest           Share on Google+           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Messenger           Close                                                             Changing times: students stage a kiss-in at a Sainsbury’s store in Brighton last year after two gay women were threatened with ejection for kissing.
Photograph: Christopher Ison     F or a single statistic to be the primary propaganda weapon for a radical political movement is unusual. Back in 1977, the US National Gay Task Force (NGTF) was invited into the White House to meet President Jimmy Carter’s representatives – a first for gay and lesbian groups. The NGTF’s most prominent campaigning slogan was “we are everywhere”, backed up by the memorable statistical claim that one in 10 of the US population was gay – this figure was deeply and passionately contested.      Gay Britain: what do the statistics say?           Read more       So where did Bruce Voeller , a scientist who was a founder and first director of the NGTF, get this nice round 10% from? To find out, we have to delve back into Alfred Kinsey’s surveys in 1940s America , which were groundbreaking at the time but are now seen as archaic in their methods: he sought out respondents in prisons and the gay underworld, made friends with them and, over a cigarette, noted down their behaviours using an obscure code. Kinsey did not believe that sexual identity was fixed and simply categorised, and perhaps his most lasting contribution was his scale, still used today, in which individuals are rated from exclusively heterosexual to exclusively homosexual on a scale of 0 to 6.  Kinsey’s headline finding was that “at least 37% of the male population has some homosexual experience between the beginning of adolescence and old age”, meaning physical contact to the point of orgasm. He claimed that 13% of males were predominately homosexual for at least three years between the ages of 16 and 55 (scoring at least 4) and that 4% of males were exclusively homosexual all their lives (scoring 6). For 30-year-old US men, he estimated that 83% would score 0 (totally heterosexual), 8% would be 1 or 2 on the scale, and 9% would be at least a 3. He acknowledged that people could move on the scale during their lifetime, and indeed Kinsey himself is said to have moved from a 1 or 2 when younger to a 3 or 4 in middle age.  When he published his study on women in 1953, Kinsey estimated that 20% of women had had some same-sex experience and 13% to orgasm. In unmarried females between the ages of 20 and 35, he claimed there was at least some homosexual experience in 11%-20%, and 1%-3% were exclusively homosexual.                                     Facebook         Twitter         Pinterest         Alfred Kinsey interviews a woman for one of his sexual behaviour surveys. Photograph: Bill Dellenback/AP   So, in 1973, when Voeller was putting together the NGTF campaign , he went back to Kinsey’s estimates for those with predominantly homosexual experience (4 to 6 on his scale) for at least three years. As this was around 7% for women and 13% for men he took an average to get the headline figure: 10% of the population was gay.  This 10% claim was controversial, to say the least, and reignited old arguments about Kinsey’s poor survey methods. But even cleaned-up data gave similar answers, and Voeller stuck to the 10%, stating in 1990 that “the concept that 10% of the population is gay has become a generally accepted ‘fact’… As with so many pieces of knowledge (and myths), repeated telling made it so.”  This did not stop this figure being strongly disputed by conservatives, who were overjoyed when, in 1991, the US National Survey of Men estimated that only 2.3% of men said that they had not been exclusively heterosexual, while only 1.1% said they had been exclusively homosexual. Statistics had become part of a political battleground, with heated arguments back and forth, but unfortunately without any agreed definition: what was meant by “homosexual”?  When it became necessary to predict what would happen to the Aids epidemic, it was vital to find out what people actually did with each other. It was clear that just asking people their sexuality could give wildly differing answers depending on how people interpreted terms such as “homosexual”, and so a more nuanced approach was adopted. Surveys started to distinguish between identity (what sexual orientation you claim); attraction (who you find sexually attractive); and behaviour (whether you have had same-sex experiences). The numbers for each area turn out to be very different.  Let’s start with sexual identity. The National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (Natsal) is the most reliable source of information on what Britons do in private, and has taken place every 10 years since 1990. Natsal-3, from around 2010, asked which “best describes how you think of yourself”: a) heterosexual/straight; b) gay/lesbian; c) bisexual, d) other?  Over an age-range from 16 to 74, 1% of women and 1.5% of men consider themselves gay/lesbian, and 1.4% of women and 1% of men think of themselves as bisexual. But there is a clear gradient with age, with a much higher proportion in younger people, particularly in younger women: the percentage for women between 16 and 24 jumps nearly fourfold.  Sexual identity is also now part of official government statistics. As part of its huge household survey, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) found 1.1% reported their identity as gay or lesbian – roughly the same as Natsal. But only 0.4% of respondents reported themselves as bisexual to ONS, around a third that reported to Natsal. So is this evidence of bias in the Natsal participants or a sign of reluctance to open up in a general household survey that is largely concerned with mundane matters such as shopping habits?  I am inclined to go with Natsal, and my judgment would be that roughly one in 80 adults under 75 would consider themselves gay/lesbian and one in 80 bisexual, but with the balance towards bisexual in women. That works out to a total of nearly 1.2 million – the population of Birmingham.                                 Facebook         Twitter         Pinterest         Andrew Wale and Neil Allard after marrying, in Brighton in 2014, in the first legal same-sex wedding in Britain. Photograph: Luke MacGregor/Reuters   There are around 9 million LGBT (lesbian, gay bisexual and transgender) Americans, roughly equivalent to the population of New Jersey, according to a recent US review. But, just as in the UK, the routine US National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) comes up with a lower figure for bisexuality than the dedicated sex surveys: it seems plausible that there is less willingness to acknowledge bisexual identity in routine surveys, whereas those who clearly identify themselves as gay or lesbian are willing to be more upfront .  Same-sex sexual behaviour can come in all degrees of intensity. So Natsal carefully distinguishes a “same-sex experience”, which could be just a smooch in the dark, from a “same-sex partner”, who is someone with whom you have had any genital contact intended to achieve orgasm. Respondents are asked about activity at any age, so adolescent fumblings counted.  For women in the age range 16 to 44, the proportion who report having had some same-sex experience has shown a dramatic rise over the past 20 years: from 4% in 1990 to 10% in 2000, and to 16% in 2010 – a massive change in behaviour over such a short period. But this is not all just girls kissing girls in imitation of Madonna and Britney Spears; around half report genital contact, and around half of these in the past five years, so that overall nearly one in 20 women report a same-sex partner in the past five years.         The proportion of people with same-sex experience is higher than the proportion who identify as gay and bisexual    But has there really been a change, or are women simply more willing to report what they get up to? Using some neat cross-checking, Natsal reckons that the change between 1990 and 2000 was partly due to more honest reporting, but the rise in 2000 and 2010 was all real.  And it is clear that there is a lot of experimental activity – roughly, for each woman who has had a recent same-sex partner there are two more of the same age who have had some same-sex contact in their lives, but no partner in the past five years.  Men show a different pattern. In 2010, about 8% of 16- to 44-year-old men reported having had a same-sex experience: this is higher than in 1990, possibly associated with both better reporting and the decline in fear of HIV, but there have been no substantial recent changes.  However, the picture shows a clear peak of lifetime same-sex experience for men aged around 60, and then a dramatic drop in those around 70, a pattern not seen in women. History might provide some explanation: men now aged around 60 were teenagers in the liberating 60s, when homosexuality was legalised, while men who are now around 70 grew up when same-sex male behaviour in men was illegal and frequently prosecuted. Much younger men, meanwhile, would have come to adulthood in the more sober era of HIV.  Overall the proportion of people with same-sex experience is far higher than the proportion who identify themselves as gay and bisexual. This must mean that many same-sex contacts are by people who do not consider themselves gay or bisexual. That’s just what we find in reputable surveys: in the last big US survey, 10% of women and 3% of men who identified themselves as “heterosexual” also reported a same‑sex contact.  Hence the public health world uses the rather clumsy phrase “men who have sex with men” (MSM) rather than “homosexual” or “gay”.  And there is one characteristic that unites female and male same-sex experience: the rates are two to three times higher among those with further education than those with no qualifications.  Along with changes in behaviour, there’s been a consistent shift in attitudes to same-sex partnerships . Natsal has been asking the same questions at 10-year intervals, and the proportion of 16- to 44-year-old women who agree that “same-sex relationships are not wrong at all” has gone up from 28% in 1990 to 66% in 2010 – an extraordinary reversal of opinion over just 20 years. Men are a bit more conservative, but agreement has still more than doubled, from 23% to 50%.  Bruce Voeller didn’t live to see the changes in attitudes he had fought for so hard. He carried on writing academic papers on the history of oral and anal sex, and was at the historic meeting that decided the term “Aids” in 1982 – some recall it was his suggestion. He died aged 59 in 1994 of an Aids-related illness in California.  Yet his legacy lives on. Because, if we consider possible transient same-sex behaviour, his rather wild stat-in-the-dark begins to look rather reasonable. Identity aside, ten per cent of the population, it seems, could well be involved in same sex behaviour after all.  David Spiegelhalter’s Sex By Numbers: What Statistics Can Tell Us About Sexual Behaviour is published by Profile and Wellcome Collection (£12.99). Click here to order a copy for £10.39    Topics     Sexuality    The Observer        Gender    LGBT rights    Sex    features         Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share via Email           Share on LinkedIn           Share on Pinterest           Share on Google+           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Messenger               Reuse this content                            View all comments >            Order by    newest    oldest    recommendations      Show 25    25    50    100    All      Threads    collapsed    expanded    unthreaded       Loading comments… Trouble loading?         View more comments             more on this story                             'Exaggerations' threaten public trust in science, says leading statistician     David Spiegelhalter, president of Royal Statistical Society, says sloppy attitude to statistics leads to misleading claims and draws parallels to rise of fake news          Published: 28 Jun 2017      'Exaggerations' threaten public trust in science, says leading statistician                           ONS looks to big data as it explores new ways to measure UK economy     Office for National Statistics to harvest data from traffic sensors, mobile phones and satellite images at new campus in Wales          Published: 27 Mar 2017      ONS looks to big data as it explores new ways to measure UK economy                           The hi-tech war on science fraud     The Long Read: The problem of fake data may go far deeper than scientists admit. Now a team of researchers has a controversial plan to root out the perpetrators          Published: 1 Feb 2017      The hi-tech war on science fraud                           Statisticians fear Trump White House will manipulate figures to fit narrative     Experts, including former chief statistician of the US and outgoing head of Bureau of Labor Statistics, see threats to system of public, accurate data          Published: 30 Jan 2017      Statisticians fear Trump White House will manipulate figures to fit narrative                  A Field Guide to Lies and Statistics review – timely but limited             Published: 16 Jan 2017      A Field Guide to Lies and Statistics review – timely but limited            How statistics lost their power – and why we should fear what comes next             Published: 19 Jan 2017      How statistics lost their power – and why we should fear what comes next            Our nine-point guide to spotting a dodgy statistic             Published: 17 Jul 2016      Our nine-point guide to spotting a dodgy statistic            Brexit: how can the same statistics be read so differently?             Published: 3 Jun 2016      Brexit: how can the same statistics be read so differently?                     More more on this story              Most viewed                            UK    UK politics    Education    Media    Society    Law    Scotland    Wales    Northern Ireland          back to top                 jobs   become a supporter   make a contribution   guardian labs     about us   work for us   contact us   advertise with us     help   terms & conditions   privacy policy   cookie policy   securedrop   complaints & corrections     all topics   all contributors   Facebook   Twitter   subscribe   digital newspaper archive       © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.                     