This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Police Procedures  Police and Law Enforcement  Cars and Automobiles What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 11 Answers   John Wayne Jones , Former SWAT, F-15C/F-5E pilot Retired Airline Captain. Answered Apr 20, 2017 · Author has 811 answers and 3.5m answer views It depends on how you drive, where you live, what time of day you are typically on the road, what you drive, how loud your exhaust is, whether you spin your tires or not…things that draw attention to your car are bad- spinning your tires, loud exhaust, jackrabbit starts, all of these things get cops looking. Tint your windows dark and cruise around neighborhoods at 2 am, or drive fast, or aggressively in traffic…and cops will definitely want to meet you. Cruise around, driving like a kid during the peak times for partiers to leave the bar, and you will surely have a blue fan club. I never get tickets even if I do get pulled over, because I speak cop fluently. But I haven’t been pulled over in 8 years, and it was 6 years before that…so twice in 14 years, and I own a hotrod shop, and have 16 cars in my personal collection, which all have 800–1200hp, including a Lamborghini and an Audi R8 GT. Even in a supercar, you can drive and even drive fast, and remain invisible. It is an art, really… B^) 5.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  J Sup Related Questions More Answers Below What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? My car is at a different location, torn apart. Can I get a police escort to go and get it? Can a police officer go through your wallet if you are not around or in the car if someone else gets pulled over? Ask New Question   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Sep 9, 2016 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Any statistic that addressed all drivers on the road would be misleading, as there is a subset of drivers who get pulled over on a regular basis. Me, I get pulled over about once every ten years. You might as well as what your chances are of tearing your ACL on any given day. If you work at a desk job and are fairly sedentary, pretty low. If you are a professional or amateur athlete who plays in contact sports a lot, you have a orthopedist on speed dial. It all depends on your driving habits. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Rick Fox and  Jack Nai promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   John Sergent Answered Jun 15, 2015 · Author has 2.9k answers and 1.2m answer views I don't know whether that number is accurate. But the thing is, there's no point in even trying to calculate whether it's reasonable or not, because it doesn't mean anything. If it isn't simply made up (which is most likely) then it still leaves out everything that affects whether you will be pulled over or not: how you drive, what you drive, where you drive (including whether random stops, DUI checkpoints, etc. are common there) and, sadly, race and so forth. Just taking how many times a vehicle is entered and comparing it to the number of times one is pulled over has no value by itself. 6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Alexander Selkirk , Motor Sport Nerd, I like to wrench on my own cars Answered Jun 23, 2015 · Author has 260 answers and 342.7k answer views It very much depends on circumstances and your driving. If you drive like me - somewhat like an Italian but more controlled - in the USA where many cops are assigned to writing tickets, you'll get pulled about once in every 800 trips. Here in Texas, if it's late at night, the cop is bored and you're not white, you may be pulled for no reason at all. The "Driving While Brown" thing is no longer common here in Austin. If you drive in rural areas and don't speed much or know the local deputies, probably never, even for a DUI. I suspect the average is lower than 1 in 2000 at least here in Austin. 4.9k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , car enthusiast. Answered Jun 19, 2015 · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.3m answer views That answer is very likely fictitious.  I would ask that "someone" to provide you with their source for such a claim.  The real odds of you getting pulled involve many variables including but not limited to: Location, time of day, day of month, season, race, gender, type of vehicle, color of vehicle, number of police per citizen on the road, if there is any type of special enforcement mission going on, condition of your vehicle, etc.  I could go on forever.  There are several steps that you, the driver, can take prior to leaving on a trip to reduce your risk of being stopped.  I would recommend two things: Make sure your vehicle is in good working order and obey the traffic laws.  You may still be stopped, though.  Sometimes it just happens. 5.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by SimScale Learn how to use CFD simulation to comply with EN 15251 standard. Free webinar on HVAC design optimization and testing with CFD to ensure thermal comfort for EN 15251. Sign Up at simscale.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Phil Yerington , studied at Police and Law Enforcement Answered Jul 31, 2017 · Author has 1.5k answers and 846.4k answer views I'm not sure I agree with the statistic you provided. Nor am I sure there's a legitimate way to calculate that figure. I've known people who have never been stopped by an officer and people who are habitual violators who seem to get stopped frequently. I stopped an elderly gentleman once in the 1990’s who provided me his driver's license that he'd received in the 1940’s! He never applied for a reissuance because he had never been stopped and told to do so! Driving habits dictate how many times, if ever, a person might be stopped by the police while driving. 2.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  John Cox ,  Rashad Battle , and 1 more   Marc Whinery , studied at School for the Talented and Gifted Answered Sep 27, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views “ What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car?” Well, as “you” is me, and I’ve been pulled over about once every 10 years, since I started driving newer/nicer cars, and I average 2+ trips a day, I’ll call that about 1/4000. Before I started driving new cars, I was young and in cars that “fit the profile” better, and my odds were more like 1/400. The average person would get pulled over about the 1/2000 you mention, but there is no average person. 1.3k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Patti Haskins   Tim Gordon Answered Jan 5, 2017 · Author has 2.4k answers and 2m answer views What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? In reality, it’s probably about impossible to quantify that. You can certainly be in a position where your odds are higher , but every time you get in the car? I don’t know of anyone who has that happening! If you keep a low profile and don’t stand out and are a fairly conservative driver, you probably have a very slim chance of being pulled over if you’re in a ‘reasonable’ locale. One in two thousand is probably not unrealistic for many people. For many of us, two thousand separate automobile trips might be, what, three to four years’ worth of driving? I can see being pulled over once in four years. Precisely what one is being pulled over for wasn’t specified. Most of the times I’ve been pulled over it’s been for the officer to inform me that I’ve got a taillight out or the like and no citation or even a written warning is issued. The State Patrol is especially good about this in my state. They’re not looking to jack people for revenue, they really are concerned more about public safety than anything. I guess that makes sense since they’re part of the state’s Department of Public Safety. 2.9k Views Quora User , Sometimes cops are crooked. Answered May 2, 2016 · Author has 242 answers and 255.7k answer views It depends on: What you drive How you drive Where you drive Driving a red Porsche on the local road here that goes to the court house, likely a ticket every time... If there is anything the can bust you on. 983 Views Quora User , I'm not wearing a safety pin and this ain't your safe place. Answered Jun 17, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 909.1k answer views There is no easy answer to this question, or any way to calculate the odds. The only real answer would be, it depends on how many time you violate a law, generally. 418 Views · Answer requested by  Robyn Hennessy   Steve Taylor , studied at N. E. Tech Answered Sep 28, 2017 · Author has 678 answers and 127.7k answer views Slim, even if not obeying the law. More so in populated areas like cities, where police have more to worry about than that. 4 Views Related Questions Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" Why does the police pull me over every time I get off work as a bouncer at a local bar in a small town? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? How do police pull over more than one car at the same time for speeding? Do police chiefs get weekends off? They go to the department every day. Would you get pulled over just because a car looks like it can go fast? What happens if I speed past a police car who has pulled someone over? When the police pull a car over, why does the officer position his or her car facing the road? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? My car is at a different location, torn apart. Can I get a police escort to go and get it? Can a police officer go through your wallet if you are not around or in the car if someone else gets pulled over? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" Why does the police pull me over every time I get off work as a bouncer at a local bar in a small town? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Auto Insurance  Interacting with Police  Insurance  Police and Law Enforcement What are the chances of me getting pulled over by a cop? My car is registered and I have insurance but not a license. Update Cancel Answer Wiki 8 Answers   John Geare , Holder of CIC Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 6.9k answers and 20.9m answer views Some not very good information about auto insurance in the USA, so here is the real deal: In the basic personal auto policy, which virtually all insurers use (subject to a few tweaks, here and there) the word "license" occurs just once.  Here is the redacted material: " This policy may be cancelled ...as follows: If your driver's license or that of Any driver who lives with you; or Any driver who customarily uses "your covered auto"; has been suspended or revoked.  If the policy was obtained through material misrepresentation. " Note that the wording is very cagey, here. It says the policy may , not will be canceled. Note as well that the basis for cancellation is suspension or revocation . Merely not having a license is not grounds for canceling. Finally, you'll see that material misrepresentation (lying) when obtaining the policy also allows the insurance company to say "adios." So, why the weasily words? Well, one very good reason is that there are plenty of auto owners who don't have a license; they own the car for the benefit of someone else to drive. Perhaps an elderly parent or grand parent who buys the car for a teen who lacks the funds. (As an agent I had always suggested that they give the money to the person, rather than provide the car -things are "cleaner," that way). There are also the cases in which one spouse who has title to the vehicles has had his or her license suspended or revoked. That driver may be excluded (individually canceled, as it were) from coverage specifically, without need of canceling the entire policy. But you will NOT find any material which will result in a denial of a claim because the driver was unlicensed. Why not? Because that would be against public policy. The whole idea is that 3rd party financial capacity (the insurance company) will be there to satisfy the claims of injured parties in case of an accident. To refuse the claim because of a license matter would result in a huge number of claims going unpaid. Now, as for the question at hand: getting caught by the cops without a license will evoke whatever penalties are involved for that (depends on the state). This assumes you don't have a license at all, not that you have one, but lost it or left it at home, etc. If the disclosure comes as the result of an accident, the insurance will pay for injuries and damage to property of others (and to the driver's own car, if covered). The insurance company will note from the accident report that their driver had no license, and will probably then cancel the policy. Here is a copy of the basic policy, which you may consult. https://www.independentagent.com...  As to the "chances" of being pulled over: except to the extent that you may drive a bit nervously owing to the lack of a license, the chances of being pulled over will depend on how you drive, not on having a license. Hope that helps. 1.6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Policygenius The easy way to compare and buy life insurance online. Compare quotes from over 15 life insurance companies and save. Get Quote at policygenius.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below If a cop who has pulled me over walks toward my car, would anything happen if I get out of my car holding my license? Why do cops not pull over cars without license plates? Would cops pull you over just because you have a luxurious car? What do you need to do to get a car registered, tagged, and insured without a license in Maryland? Can a cop pull over 2 or more cars at once? Ask New Question   Miranda Marcus , Adventure is Worthwhile! Answered Feb 6, 2016 · Author has 1.6k answers and 5.1m answer views This answer is for the USA (mostly the Midwest) Whether or not you get pulled over depends on: Your appearance The neighborhoods you drive in The type of car you are driving How well you follow driving laws Here are some driving violations which have been used to pull over people I know: Speeding (even 1 MPH over) Music too loud (it was very loud) Not coming to a complete stop at a stop sign Not using a turn signal Running a red light (maybe you pushed that yellow a bit too much) Expired registration stickers Following the car in front of you too closely Reckless driving (this one could be used to justify pulling anyone over at any time just by claiming you went out of your lane a little) Driving too slow (5 MPH or more under the speed limit) Look at that list.  No one is such a good driver and so conscientious that you could never violate any of these rules. Regardless, some people go a very long time without getting pulled over.  At the risk of jinxing myself, I haven't been pulled over in over 10 years.  One significant reason (I suppose) is that I don't look suspicious.  I am white, female, and I now drive boring normal cars.  The two times I was pulled over were when I looked far less normal. The first time was when I was driving a rusted out barely moving clunker which I had lovingly covered in cheap stickers and duct tape.  I didn't have a front license plate because the holder had rusted through and I hadn't made the effort to fix it.  The coolant tank was held in place with an old belt and I carried a jug of water in my trunk at all times in case of overheating.  The second time I was pulled over I was driving a red little sporty car in a bad neighborhood while dressed in full goth with an even more goth passenger.  These days, I look much less interesting on the road. My husband is dark-skinned Mexican.  He had a sporty car he loved and was proud of owning, but driving it increased his number of times being pulled over from zero ever when driving his work van to once every couple months in his nice car.  Same guy, same driving skills, same area, huge difference in rate of getting pulled over.  Eventually he returned to driving his work van and never getting pulled over. I have known some black people who have a huge increase in getting pulled over, regardless of type of car or location.  Dressing like a yuppie and driving a bland car and help a bit, but not entirely.  I knew a middle-aged black engineer who was pulled over in his own neighborhood because he "looked like he didn't belong". So, how likely are you to be pulled over?  It depends quite a bit on how you look and what kind of car you drive.  The more you can look like you belong and don't stand out, the less likely you will be to get pulled over. I have never met anyone more aware of this phenomenon than a professional criminal whom I once made the mistake of caring about.  He was always in and out of jail, but always for driving violations, not his other activities because those were harder to get evidence on.  In Ohio, you can be locked up for 6 months for driving on a suspended license, it just depends on how much the cops don't like you. When my husband was unable to get a driver's license, due to not having a visa, he was always able to pay a fine to get out jail the same day he was pulled over.  So, if you have money and aren't up to no good, the worst you'll likely face is losing a couple hundred dollars in fines, bonds, and getting your car out of impound.  However, if you're unlucky you could spend half a year in jail (or get deported if you don't have a visa and aren't in a "sanctuary city"). Consider the risks and rewards carefully. Oh and also, in Ohio at least, someone who let's an unlicensed driver use their car can be charged with "wrongful entrustment" which can lead to a 6 month jail sentence (I learned about this law the hard way).  So think about what you could be doing to the owner of the car you're driving. 1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Truthfinder Find anyone's arrest record instantly. Truthfinder is a leading source to find arrest records. Enter a name and state to see results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Jennifer Ellis , I am not an insurance expert. But I do have to buy it. Answered Jan 29, 2016 · Author has 12.9k answers and 42.2m answer views Good. Your chances are good. Everyone's chances are good for getting pulled over. Driving without a license is a pretty serious offense. If you are caught without it, aside from expensive fines, any chance you have to get your license back will be greatly impacted. Also, your insurance may not be valid. That means if you are in an accident, your insurance may refuse to cover you. Why? Because you cannot be insured as a driver under an insurance policy if you don't have a license. People who do not have licenses, do not generally have valid insurance. There are some very limited circumstances where this is acceptable, and they usually involve people who are unable to drive, swear they will never drive the car, and are purchasing insurance so other people can drive them. Can I get auto insurance without a driver's license?  4.3k Views · View Upvoters If you require legal assistance, please contact a lawyer in yo... (more) Loading… Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Roger Taylor , studied at FCM Answered Mar 21, 2017 · Author has 326 answers and 172.5k answer views Registered to whom? You? If the car was registered to you, and then your license was suspended. Anytime your plate was ran it would show up as your license being suspended. I know a county deputy who is able to run 3 or 4 plates at once, automatically. That's technology working for you. When he is in traffic on multi lane roads, his cars computer system is running every plate it can see. Then it is telling him everything about the person the car is registered to. If it's someone else's car and you just don't have a license, that can get ugly. Why would they loan you a vehicle if you have no drivers license? They didn't know it? It's their responsibility to make sure that anyone who uses their car has a proper license to drive it. So if you get pulled over and have no license, chances are good that the car would be towed. Oh, that would make the owner of the car happy as they would be responsible for paying the tow bill. That's part of the owner being responsible to only allow people with a license drive a car they own. Get caught driving without a license or driving on a suspended license more than once. You might get a few days, weeks, months or even years behind bars. And if you have a wreck and someone is seriously injured, or killed. Ouch! 313 Views   Kathleen Grace , artist, photographer, top writer 2015,16,17,18 Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 11.9k answers and 13.4m answer views The registration and insurance would need to be shown after you are pulled over, they would not be an issue until that point. What would get you pulled over are traffic violations like speeding or rolling stop,  or vehicle equipment violations, say a broken tail light. So, if you drive well, obey traffic laws, and don't draw attention to yourself by driving erratically, the likelihood is low. The chances do increase though every time you roll that car onto the road. The more you drive, the more chance you create for a potential to be pulled over - even looking worried when you see a cop could make you look suspicious. Keep driving and the odds grow against you. Whatever the reason, the car is legal, you aren't. You need to fix that. 815 Views · View Upvoters   Leonid S. Knyshov , I understand insurance well, but I am not a licensed professional Answered Jan 29, 2016 · Author has 7.1k answers and 9.5m answer views If you never had a driver's license, you will likely attract police attention very quickly because you probably don't have the experience of driving smoothly with the flow of traffic. That only comes with seat time behind the wheel. If you had a license and it's now suspended or revoked, you will likely go to jail if caught. The police may consider you as driving a stolen vehicle. Your father should not give you permission to drive his vehicle without a valid license. Therefore, you are stealing it. You only own that vehicle if your name is on the title even if it was purchased with your money. 700 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , I'm not wearing a safety pin and this ain't your safe place. Answered Jan 31, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 909.1k answer views If you are driving, and not committing any violations, then your chances are slim to none.  An officer should have at the very least reasonable suspicion that a crime or traffic violation is being committed. If the officer knows you personally, or is, familiar with your history and knows you have no license, then he most likely will stop you. If an officer pulled up behind your vehicle at a stop light and just happens to run your tag, and it shows you are the registered owner and that you are unlicensed, most likely you will be stopped. 312 Views · View Upvoters   Roland Bavington , Salesperson (hero), father (hero) and trainee CX hero Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 144 answers and 115.4k answer views Please don't do this. Your insurance won't be valid if you don't have a licence, this means that if you do have a crash which is your fault and leave someone disabled or otherwise seriously injured you will have no way to provide them with the money that your insurance company would have paid out and which could have mitigated the immense change you have wrought in their life or lives. Dont do it, it's selfish and short sighted. 460 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions Is this legal?  A cop pulled me over because he entered the wrong license plate number. Can a cop tell you to get off your phone while he has you pulled over? What happens when a cop gets pulled over by another cop for a DUI? Can cops run a background check on you if you get pulled over? What happens if you get pulled over with no proof of insurance in NJ? What can happen if you get pulled over on a moped (50cc) without a license, tags or insurance? Can an insured & licensed minor rent a car after their car is wrecked and they were not at fault? Why do cops pull over people with sport cars or super cars? I was hit in rear. I was completely stopped. The car was repaired. Now I have noticed some transmission issues. I took it in, and the insuranc... Can a cop block a two lane road when they pull over a car? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions If a cop who has pulled me over walks toward my car, would anything happen if I get out of my car holding my license? Why do cops not pull over cars without license plates? Would cops pull you over just because you have a luxurious car? What do you need to do to get a car registered, tagged, and insured without a license in Maryland? Can a cop pull over 2 or more cars at once? Is this legal?  A cop pulled me over because he entered the wrong license plate number. Can a cop tell you to get off your phone while he has you pulled over? What happens when a cop gets pulled over by another cop for a DUI? Can cops run a background check on you if you get pulled over? What happens if you get pulled over with no proof of insurance in NJ? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Colors (vision)  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement  Cars and Automobiles What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 18 Answers   Shay Fowler , works at Self-Employment Answered Nov 24, 2015 From experience I can tell you that newer cars that aren't sporty get pulled over less than older cars or sport cars. When I was driving my new powder blue Toyota, I was never pulled over. When that car went into the shop (for a solid month... terrible story) I borrowed my daughter's 'beater' Dodge Neon. It was a hand-me-down with peeling paint and dents. I was pulled over four times in four weeks. Never for speeding or messing up. The cops all had different excuses. One time the officer said that he couldn't clearly see my inspection sticker. Another time the officer said that he 'smelled something' as I drove past. One time he thought my tires looked low on tread. I argued that they were NEW tires and he ended up agreeing with me and letting me go. (That guy wasn't a bad man. He came out to my house once when I was complaining about a dog attacking my kids in my yard and was nice as can be.) Can't remember the 4th excuse. Never even got a warning, let alone a ticket. I never did anything wrong. I'm the same driver. The same middle-aged woman. Driving on the same roads that I was before. Remarkably, once I got my Toyota back, I had no more issues. My daughter hated that car because it was a target. Not only would she get pulled over, but she'd get searched every time. Once she got a new car, she's never been pulled over again. My mother noticed the same trend when she saved up enough to upgrade from her 80's crap car to a new SUV. Right now, hubs and I are investing and saving for retirement, so we drive crap cars to save money. We have money, but we 'look' poor. Poor = target. Young + male + sports car also = target. So if you're looking to avoid hassle, get a newer car that appears more sedate and keep it clean. (For some reason, cops don't seem to have a problem with black SUV's without tinted windows when driven by a woman. Guess they like soccer moms) Also, obey the law. (But if you're driving a 'beater' that won't be enough.) 9.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? Would someone driving a car that resembles a police vehicle get pulled over more or less? What's the most common color of vehicles that get pulled over? Can you follow a police car and not get pulled over? Ask New Question   Doreen Knight , Drove a lot of miles in my life Answered Oct 10, 2017 · Author has 620 answers and 632.6k answer views First of all, I’m going to warn you that I disagree with most of the other answers. I had a friend,Pat, who was involved in a bad motor accident. The other driver, who was at fault, said that he hadn’t seen her. Her car was dark grey (gray) the same colour (color) as the road. When I came to change my car I had a choice of two, a blue one or a fluorescent green one (same model, same year, same price). Remembering Pat, I chose the bright green one - no-one’s going to miss seeing a car like that even if he’s not wearing his glasses. It was bright ! I was always being pulled over by the police for spot-checks because I didn’t blend in. What sort of crazy hippy free-thinker would be driving a car like that. When my car finally died and I changed it for a plain white Ford, I didn’t get stopped at all. Blend-in, don’t get a conspicuous looking car. Also, I don’t know if this is true, but I heard that at one time British police used to play car snooker (British game played on a billiard table with coloured balls). You get one point for stopping a red car, then you go on to the colours, and score points according to the value of potting the snooker ball of that colour. Don’t get a red car you’ll get stopped twice as often, don’t get a black car it’s worth seven points. A good choice is white - it’s four points away for potting the cue ball. Finally, I’d like to ask the American Quorans a question. Can the American police stop you on a spot check, or do you have to have commited a traffic violation ? 5.9k Views · View Upvoters Quora User Answered Oct 11, 2017 Here in the Netherlands I don’t think the colour matters that much. The make and model together with your own appearance does though. A young guy driving a big fat Audi s6 from last year will be more likely to be stopped or checked than a young guy in an Toyota Yaris. Especially cars that have tinted windows (they’ll wonder what you’re hiding) or have obvious after-market (big spoilers, mufflers, lowered suspension) stuff on them tend to get checked out more frequently and possibly pulled over. *an addition: dutch Police also try to stay adware what kind of cars are popular amongst criminals, driving one of those might get you more attention from them. 1.2k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Adey Hill , I used to sell cars and have cleaned and detailed many of them Updated May 12, 2017 · Author has 1.9k answers and 4.9m answer views Whilst I am almost certain that someone somewhere will have compiled and extrapolated loads of data on which colour of car gets pulled over the most/least, I can say that they have wasted their time and money. Cars tend to have colour trends; a few years ago it was silver now it's white. If you currently drive a white car then statistically you will have more chance of being pulled over than if you drive a pink car. The simple facts are that cops don't pay much attention to the colour (other than making a mental note along with make model and registration mark) should it make off.) What we tend to look at is manner and style of driving, if the passengers or driver are acting suspiciously or the car sticks out like a sore thumb for the area it is in. 17.1k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Sean Naylor Quora User , Objective police supporter, hated by Pat Dernec Updated Sep 12, 2015 · Author has 453 answers and 163.4k answer views White, Silver, Tan, Beige, etc. Whatever colors draw your attention the least, will be the same for cops. They're human, so they're drawn to flashier cars and bold colors. And as Brian Jones said, it's your driving that will catch their attention the most. 13.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jim Thompson , ASE Certified auto mechanic for 25 years. Answered Apr 3, 2016 · Author has 184 answers and 126.1k answer views White is the least likely to be noticed. Most company cars are white and people who own white cars are more conservative in their driving, in my experience. Also, when I did get stopped the police were 90% more likely to just give me a verbal warning. I was once stopped doing 65 in a 30 and the cop let me go with a verbal warning. Also, do not drive a small Honda. I purchased one of them, Teal color, and got stopped more and got more tickets in 6 months than I had in the previous 10 years. I think the cops profile cars like that because they are more likely to be driven by young people than older, more cautious drivers. they also stopped me for very minor infractions, like not signalling before changing lanes.  The cops stopping me seemed to be surprised that an old fart like me was driving a car like that. Any shade of brown would be the next most inconspicuous color. I rarely got stopped in a brown company car I drove even though I exceeded the speed limit often. That is the car I was driving 65 in the 30 zone. It also helps to be honest when they stop you, especially for speeding. When the cops asked me if I knew how fast I was going, I would say: "Yes, I was going 70." [Or whatever speed I was driving at the time} They would usually do a double take because most people lie to them. They appreciate honesty. 3.8k Views · View Upvoters   Hasting Jarnos , Cop and Software Engineer Answered Dec 14, 2017 · Author has 268 answers and 144.6k answer views Honestly, that's a hard honestly, that's a hard one to answer. Because those kind of stats aren't tracked to be able to give the objective answer. Cops tend to pull people over for something they've done, or an issue with their vehicle. I could say that silver is the most non seen color, but then somebody could pull out some kind of stat that shows silver vehicles are pulled over at a high percentage. What gets pulled over most is what catches people's eye. So if it catches your eye, it most likely catches a cop's eye. 489 Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood   Uday Singh Answered Dec 15, 2017 · Author has 182 answers and 105.9k answer views Silver, probably because of how common it is! XD hehe. But in this day and age it is difficult to tell what color cars get least likely caught… It seems like the age of the car seems to grab the attention of the police. Old cars are targeted often because they are old, so there could be more things likely to be out of order than recent cars. I watched a documentary about the British police, how they stop cars. The documentary mentioned that the police stopped an old white Ford Transit tow truck, simply for the reason that it looked too “old”. It was an early 1990s Ford Transit tow truck… and the documentary was filmed in the 2010s… that Ford Transit could’ve been an antique no? XD Now why was it stopped? Because it didn’t have its “MOT” or in other parts of the world, known as technical control. That Ford Transit was old, therefore many things weren’t in order, like the tire grips were badly worn away, etc… 416 Views · Answer requested by Quora User Quora User , lived in London (1995-2002) Answered Dec 13, 2017 · Author has 1.3k answers and 2.1m answer views When I lived in the UK, there were persistent rumors that some police were engaged in a game of Motorway Snooker amongst themselves. For those unfamiliar with the game of snooker, it uses eight different-colored balls on a pool table. Each color is worth a different number of points: nothing for the white cue ball, 1 point for red, 2 for yellow, 3 for green, 4 for brown, 5 for blue, 6 for pink, and 7 for black. If engaged in a competition, officers could keep a running tally of points based on the colors of the cars that they stopped for traffic violations. To my knowledge, the allegations of Motorway Snooker were never proven. However, the BBC did issue some suggestions to motorists about their choice of car color. Motorway snooker: Pot luck for drivers? 2k Views   Brian Jones , 26 years law enforcement experience Answered Sep 10, 2015 · Author has 1.5k answers and 658.9k answer views The color of the car not speeding, running stop signs, or driving recklessly. It's the behavior of the driver, not the color of the car that catches my attention. 4.5k Views · View Upvoters   Shridhar Deshpande , I love cars and know a bit about them. Answered Sep 30, 2015 · Author has 104 answers and 165.5k answer views There's a colour like that. The name's Invisible. Cops don't give a damn about the car colour, they look for if it's being driven sanely or n not. But otherwise, I think that if you buy a car that blends in with other cars and the cops are bored and looking for random people to pull over, you'll less likely be pulled over. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Aug 1, 2016 According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics a car being driven by a white or Hispanic woman is least likely to be pulled over. Also according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics a black male is more likely to be pulled over than white or Hispanic males. Police were more likely to search males than females when pulled over for a traffic violation. The color of the car is less a consideration than the color of the person and the color of the car is less a consideration than the type of car. My sources: Bureau of Justice Statistics 1.6k Views · View Upvoters   Marc Whinery , Driving since I was, well, old enough to drive. Multiple countries, every state Answered Oct 10, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views Anything not unusual. If you are the only bright pink car on the road, you’ll get more attention, from everyone, including cops. If you are in red, and 10% or more of the cars are red, you’ll not stand out. The white/black/grey cars all blend in. But the radar gun doesn’t see color, so a boring color won’t save you. A bright car in a unique color may draw more attention, but there’s nothing “safe”. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Hussein Osman   Bridgett Barr , I have eyes :) Answered Sep 18, 2015 White, silver, & other colours that are popular and not really noticeable compared to other cars… but.. It really has little to do with the colour. It depends on what you're doing. For example, let's say there was a busy street full of 99% red cars. If you were in a red car & driving with your door open (or something else) the police would pull you over.. But your car blends in with the other cars so they may or may not notice, especially on a busy street. If you were a red car on a busy street full of, say, 99% black cars, you would probably have more of a chance of being noticed because you're standing out, but you would still be pulled over anyhow. 3.3k Views · View Upvoters   Paul Ragon , Still Attending from Dee - Mack High School (2019) Answered Dec 26, 2017 White, followed by gray/silver. If you are looking to avoid as many tickets as possible go for one of those options. The more “boring” the color the better, you want to blend in. This works the same for model of cars as well, a sporty coupe or sedan with be pulled over more than a van or SUV. Just don’t stand out, and an officer will overlook you more often than others. 234 Views   Edmond Gaudelli , former Technical Adviser at Paladin Communications (2002-2006) Answered Dec 12, 2017 · Author has 540 answers and 78.9k answer views A white colored car. In my experience, red colored cars get ticketed more and are involved in more accidents. 143 Views · View Upvoters   Dimitrij Fedorov Answered Dec 12, 2017 · Author has 712 answers and 183.2k answer views I have no idea, and I don’t even know if there is such a thing - any color that is not bright red, aggressive yellow or neon green? Thankfully, in the past 10 years I have only been pulled over once for jumping the red light nearby. My car was black and completely unremarkable in our area - an older variety of Ford Escort. I do have one car that is very pretty, juicy red, but because it’s a hybrid, I guess it’s not high on the officers’ priority list. 105 Views · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood   Steve Blumenkranz , studied at Stanford University Answered Dec 14, 2017 · Author has 5k answers and 3.1m answer views When I owned a silver car, I had the experience that other drivers did not see me a number of times. My hypothesis is that this would apply to police officers too. 74 Views · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood Related Questions Policemen: When pulling a car over (e.g. for speeding) why do policemen touch the tail light/back of the car as they are walking up? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? If two cars are speeding at the same speed one right behind the other, which is more likely to get clocked and pulled over by the police? Why? Can a standard city police car (patrol car) pull you over on a highway for speeding? Is it true that if you drive a red car you most likely get pulled over? What will the police officer do if, when pulled over, I get out of my car without his permission? Do certain cars really get pulled over less often? What do passing drivers feel when they see a car pulled over by the police? What happens if I speed past a police car who has pulled someone over? Would you get pulled over just because a car looks like it can go fast? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? Would someone driving a car that resembles a police vehicle get pulled over more or less? What's the most common color of vehicles that get pulled over? Can you follow a police car and not get pulled over? Policemen: When pulling a car over (e.g. for speeding) why do policemen touch the tail light/back of the car as they are walking up? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? If two cars are speeding at the same speed one right behind the other, which is more likely to get clocked and pulled over by the police? Why? Can a standard city police car (patrol car) pull you over on a highway for speeding? Is it true that if you drive a red car you most likely get pulled over? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Interacting with Police  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement  Law  Cars and Automobiles What are the chances of being pulled over when going 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 mph over the speed limit? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 6 Answers   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Jan 8, 2013 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Probably very small, although the allowable margin will decrease as the speed limit decreases. You need to remember that many major investigations begin with a simple traffic stop, and any traffic violation, no matter how small, is enough to justify the stop. If the officer making the stop is looking for a reason, you gave him one. 12.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Which is worse, someone running over your legs going 5 mph or going 120 mph? Is 1 mph better or worse than 10 mph for going over a speed bump. Which speed is better for the car? Will law enforcement pull me over if I pass them on the highway going 3-4 mph over the speed limit? What are the most effective strategies to speed without getting pulled over? Ask New Question   George Erhard , Moto rider, geared up and using both tires... Answered Jan 29, 2013 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.7m answer views Within 5mph of the posted limit, you'll probably get pulled over for other reasons.  Expired tags.  Outstanding tickets ("Out here they got SCMODS.")  Nonfunctioning or broken lights.  Failure to signal.  Speeding in a construction zone.  Staying in the left lane where posted "keep to the right".  Bottomed-out suspension, obscured windows, excessive smog or noise, or other signs that the car is unsafe.  Etc etc.  Speed isn't the only reason for a traffic stop after all. One of the most trying traffic stops I've had to endure was because I'd wired the brake and taillight circuits wrong in my truck and the officer couldn't see the turn signal clearly. Once pulled over... well... he found lots of other things to 'investigate' because at the time I was very much the hippie. 5.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Anonymous Answered Oct 30, 2013 I've finally found answers to my own question.  For some reason I didn't think to check reddit. Why is it so socially acceptable to drive 5-10 mph over the speed limit? Police officers of Reddit, at what MPH over the speed limit do you typically decide to pull a driver over? Police officers of Reddit, how much speeding do you allow to happen, and how fast do you allow people to go? To the police officer who charged me for driving 3 miles over the speed limit... (surprisingly a helpful /r/AdviceAnimals topic) To summarize , it seems you can usually approach 10 mph without much worry (though you can still be ticketed between 5 and 10, it's pretty unlikely; above 10 and you're getting into likely territory -- also it should be noted that obviously these rules apply to speeds of 45 mph or higher, not something like 25 or 35 mph).  Up to 5 mph above the speed limit is a complete safe-area. 4.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Zak Ruffin , I own a car repair business Answered Jan 24, 2013 · Author has 130 answers and 164.3k answer views firstly, most speedometers over-read anyway, usually by 10%, manufacturers deliberately build this error in so that there can never be an argument from a driver that the speedo under-reading caused them to get a ticket. you can check this yourself with a gps speedo, you can download a free one for your smart phone, they are highly accurate. following that, in the uk at least, if you stick to less than 10% over the limit you'll usually be just fine. this assumes you don't get spotted by an officer who didnt get laid recently, in which case you'll be the one to get screwed. of course you could try the argument that as there is no victim there really is no crime, and therefore all the officer is doing is generating revenue for the government. but this takes a lot of guts to follow through. 3.8k Views   Marc Whinery , Driving since I was, well, old enough to drive. Multiple countries, every state Answered Mar 27, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views Usually, there’ll be a better “target”, so you’ll be safe. But if you are “interesting” to the police, any over will be sufficient for a pretext stop. 882 Views · Answer requested by  Charlie Park promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User , Police Officer Answered Jul 29, 2017 · Author has 1.6k answers and 189.9k answer views A traffic stop for 5 (or less) over is absolutely possible, but I've never actually been aware of it happening. So whatever the probability percentage is, it's going to be really low. Maybe in a 15 mph zone, but there aren't many of those. 261 Views Related Questions If you go at the same speed or even lower speed as the traffic but the traffic is exceeding the speed limit, can you still be pulled over? What is it like to be pulled over for speeding in excess of 100mph? Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" How common is it to get ticketed if you are going between 0 and 10 mph over the speed limit on a freeway? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Will you be sent a ticket if a traffic camera catches you slightly speeding (1 or 2 mph)? If not, how much over can you go? Is it true that cops won't pull you over for speeding unless you are going 10 mph over the speed limit or more? Have you ever been pulled over/pulled someone over specifically for going exactly the speed limit (ex. 55 in a 55)? What would happen if you got pulled over for speeding at 200+ MPH? You're driving 15 mph over the speed limit, when suddenly you see a cop car in the median ahead. To avoid getting pulled over, should you quic... Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Which is worse, someone running over your legs going 5 mph or going 120 mph? Is 1 mph better or worse than 10 mph for going over a speed bump. Which speed is better for the car? Will law enforcement pull me over if I pass them on the highway going 3-4 mph over the speed limit? What are the most effective strategies to speed without getting pulled over? If you go at the same speed or even lower speed as the traffic but the traffic is exceeding the speed limit, can you still be pulled over? What is it like to be pulled over for speeding in excess of 100mph? Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" How common is it to get ticketed if you are going between 0 and 10 mph over the speed limit on a freeway? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Driving Fast  Driving Tips  Being Arrested or Detained by the Police  Police Procedures  Interacting with Police  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement Are police more likely to pull you over if you're in the left lane on a highway? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 8 Answers   Justin Freeman , Former Patrol Officer Answered Apr 27, 2012 · Author has 410 answers and 7.6m answer views There really isn't any one metric regarding stop probabilities on the highway, whether in general or for a given lane. One thing that will play into this question may be whether the officer is mobile or not. If an officer is stationary and running radar or lidar, there will be more of an objective observation of raw speed. He or she will generally be training their device on each respective car in turn - across all lanes. Once a vehicle registers a reading which eclipses the officer's 'magic number' (which I discussed here and here ), it will likely trigger a traffic stop no matter which lane it's in. While someone who is obviously driving erratically will be noticed, patterns will matter less here than raw numbers. If the officer is mobile, radar may or may not be involved - mobile radar exists, but it had pretty spotty deployment on my department, and I don't know how widespread it is in general. If an officer's just patrolling, patterns will matter more - but again, it matters less about which lane you're in and more about what you look like in relation to the normal flow of traffic. As I discussed here , if you make yourself obvious in traffic, you're going to get keyed in on pretty quickly. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Marc Bodnick Related Questions More Answers Below Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" On head-on crashes on highways with a barricade in the center more likely on the right lane than left lane? Are semi trucks ever allowed to use the left lane on a highway that's three or more lanes? Which lane is the fastest on a highway? Are police more or less likely to pull over speeding taxis? Ask New Question   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Sep 14, 2013 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Most states require that slower-moving traffic keep to the right. If you loiter in the left lane and are not passing slower traffic to the right, you could be stopped for not keeping to the right. If you remain in the left lane and are consistently passing cars on the right that are moving at the speed limit, you can be stopped for speeding. Beyond that, there's no greater risk of being stopped while traveling in the left or any other lane. Traffic enforcement officers on the highway look for speeders, people changing lanes rapidly, carelessly, without signalling, or while cutting off other cars. They look for lane straddling and equipment violations. In all these things, which lane the violator is in has almost nothing to do with whether the violator will be stopped. The best way to avoid being stopped is to drive at or under the speed limit, keep your car properly registered and in good repair, and obey all traffic laws. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Denventrieal DeSean Lockett promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User , Former Deputy Sheriff, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office Answered Apr 25, 2012 · Author has 195 answers and 473.6k answer views I assume you're asking about while traveling down a major freeway. Traditionally, the number 1 lane (the far left lane) is for the faster moving traffic, so the odds are if you're following the flow of traffic, you're going faster in the left lane than others, so your odds increase. However, if traffic is going slower in the middle or right lanes, then if you're going faster, you're making more lane changes to get past people and will stand out, increasing your visibility and chances of getting stopped. As a former cop (and I assume others will back me up on this), it's more than just your speed.  Your driving - are you tailgating, making unsafe changes, multiple changes, varying your speed, racing up to the next car and hitting the brakes, etc. - is what gives the big picture of whether or not you should be stopped.  That's not to say that you can't and won't be stopped for just speed alone. And to wind my way back to your original question - I personally don't think which lane you are in matters.  At least it didn't for me. 3.1k Views · View Upvoters   George Erhard , Gets tickets for exuberance in traffic Answered Jan 29, 2013 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.7m answer views Cars (and bikes!) get pulled over because they are Noticed.  It's easy to get Noticed.  Frequent lane changes, tailgating, sudden acceleration or braking, passing on the right, anything that breaks you out of the herd... take your pick.  As for the logic of why Person A is pulled over as opposed to Persons B-Z all doing the same (excessive) speed?  One patrolman's answer has always stuck with me. "Ever gone fishing?" 825 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Peter Campbell , Most of my living relatives are in law enforcement. Answered Sep 7, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 879.6k answer views Well, I have to say that the only two times I ever got pulled over was because I was driving along in the left lane completely oblivious to the world. The first time I got a ticket and the second time was hilarious. The second time it was a young State Trooper, really nice fellow, who walks up the car and breaks out in gales of laughter and starts saying “Oh my God! I’ve pulled over Santa Clause.” So, having a snow white beard and being fat, pretty obvious even sitting down and having Canadian plates was all it took. So, the young fellow takes my papers back to his car, laughing all the time and then comes back and explains to me that I probably was speeding a bit because my speedometer was reading kilometers and its miles in the US and I was probably a bit off on my math. Please note, I did not suggest that condition, he brought it up all on his own. My guess is that the young lad wanted to cut me some slack and he had a dash video and maybe a body video to worry about and this was his way. He did warn me about a serious wind storm up ahead and was actually a very pleasant young man. Did it work? Yep. I never loiter in the left lane any more because I figure that is a true “one off” and you don’t get any more after that. Oh, I should mention that my speedometer was one of the electronic ones that could be set to kilometers or miles and said so in big green letters. It was on miles. Like I said, nice kid. 298 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Drives a lot Answered May 15, 2012 · Author has 1.7k answers and 2.1m answer views In Okla. a law was passed that says you can get ticketed for continually driving in the left lane slowing down traffic. Once you pass you're supposed to get in the right lane. Some people are still ignorant of the law, driving their Buick at 55, with their blinker continuously going, while gripping the steering wheel. 816 Views · View Upvoters   Ken Streiff , frequent writer on Quora, lots of points to give away!!! Answered May 15, 2014 · Author has 1.7k answers and 2.2m answer views Depends on which country you are in, for one thing.  And the laws of the jurisdiction, and the thing which you are doing in that lane.  Generally, if you are driving at or near the posted speed, in the general flow of traffic, not tailgating, or impeding the progress of traffic, not traveling in the wrong direction, not in a restricted bus-only or HOV-only lane, and in a vehicle fit-for-purpose, you are neither more nor less likely to be pulled over based solely on the lane in which you happen to be operating momentarily.  In the United States, the left lane is largely reserved for overtaking, and in some states this is the law, to stay right unless you are passing, signage may indicate "Slower traffic keep right".    And since you are passing while in the left lane, this may give a patrolman more reason to scrutinize whether you are in fact speeding.  So, all in all, yes, simply because there are more reasons for you to be stopped than in the right lane, but not simply because of the lane, but because of your actions. 786 Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered May 15, 2012 Some states require slower moving traffic to stay in the left lane thereby allowing the right lane to be used for passing.  Whenever you move to the right lane you draw attention to yourself and if you are passing other vehicles it will look as if you are speeding.  This alone will not get you stopped but it will draw an Officer's attention which may result in a traffic stop if he suspects you are speeding or if he witnesses another moving or equipment violation.  They point to remember is that Officers are looking for violations.  If you are not violating the law you have nothing to worry about. 660 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions On the highway do cops pull people over for speeding more during the day or at night? Cop asked me to pull over but left when I actually pulled over. What does this mean? Should I pull over when an ambulance is coming in the other lane? Can you pull over to the shoulder to await police while on a 3-lane highway when the damage is minimal to both vehicles? If a police car was tailgating (or behind) you on a single-lane highway without its lights on, should you pull over to the shoulder to allow p... Are you more likely to be pulled over when driving a ex-police car? If an officer is in front of you on the highway, can they pull you over? How deadly are lane-change/side-swipe crashes on highways? Can a police officer pull you over because you left a bar? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" On head-on crashes on highways with a barricade in the center more likely on the right lane than left lane? Are semi trucks ever allowed to use the left lane on a highway that's three or more lanes? Which lane is the fastest on a highway? Are police more or less likely to pull over speeding taxis? On the highway do cops pull people over for speeding more during the day or at night? Cop asked me to pull over but left when I actually pulled over. What does this mean? Should I pull over when an ambulance is coming in the other lane? Can you pull over to the shoulder to await police while on a 3-lane highway when the damage is minimal to both vehicles? If a police car was tailgating (or behind) you on a single-lane highway without its lights on, should you pull over to the shoulder to allow p... Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact           BJS: Bureau of Justice Statistics          Home | About Us | Contact Us | Help | A-Z Topic List           All Information Types  Publications & Products  Data Collections & Surveys  Topics  Data Analysis Tools  FAQs  Solicitations                            Print  Text Size: [ - ] [ + ]   Home  Topics          Corrections      Capital Punishment        Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)        Expenditures/Employment        Local jail inmates and jail facilities        Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))        Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)        Recidivism        Special populations        State and federal prisoners and prison facilities        Total correctional population          Federal      Corrections        Courts        Law Enforcement        Prosecution            Courts      Civil Rights        Civil cases        Criminal Cases        Indigent Defense Systems        Prosecutors Offices        State Court Caseload Statistics        State Court Organization        Tribal courts          Victims      Crime characteristics and trends        Reporting crimes to police        Research and Development        Special topics        The Crime event        Victim Service Providers        Victim characteristics        Victims and offenders            Crime Type      Cybercrime        Drugs and crime        Gangs        Hate Crime        Identity Theft        Location        Property Crime        Violent Crime        Weapon Use          Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program      National Criminal History Improvement Program        State Justice Statistics Program        The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007            Law Enforcement      Arrest-Related Deaths        Campus Law Enforcement        Community Policing        Federal Law Enforcement        Forensic Investigation        Law Enforcement Training Academies        Local Police        Police-Public Contacts        Sheriffs' Offices        Special Topics        Tribal Law Enforcement        Use of Force          Employment and Expenditure        Indian Country Justice Statistics           Publications & Products   Overview  Data and Product Finder  Alphabetical Index  Publications Prior to 1995  Search  View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View By Product Type   Publications  Data Tables  Press Releases  Working Papers  Research Papers   Forthcoming Publications & Products  View All   Errata   Data Collections   View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View All   Funding   Solicitations  BJS Visiting Fellows  Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program  Graduate Research Fellowship Program  Faculty Research Fellowship Program    Data Analysis Tools   View Dynamic Tools     Arrest Data Analysis Tool Home Page (Updated with 2013 and 2014 data)    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Parole    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Prisoners    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Probation    Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Statistics Data Tool    Federal Criminal Case Processing Statistics (FCCPS)    NCVS Victimization Analysis Tool (NVAT)    National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) API    Prisoner Recidivism Analysis Tool - 1994 Home Page    Prisoner Recidivism Analysis Tool - 2005 Home Page    View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View All   Key Statistics   View By Primary Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims    View All    About Us   Research   Research and Development Papers  Working Papers  Other BJS-funded research                        Corrections    Total correctional population   Local jail inmates and jail facilities   State and federal prisoners and prison facilities   Special populations   Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)   Expenditures/Employment   Recidivism   Capital Punishment   Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))   Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)    Courts    State Court Organization   State Court Caseload Statistics   Prosecutors Offices   Indigent Defense Systems   Tribal courts   Criminal Cases   Civil cases   Civil Rights    Crime Type    Violent Crime   Property Crime   Drugs and crime   Gangs   Hate Crime   Cybercrime   Identity Theft   Weapon Use   Location    Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program    National Criminal History Improvement Program   State Justice Statistics Program   The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007    Employment and Expenditure     Federal    Law Enforcement   Prosecution   Courts   Corrections    Indian Country Justice Statistics     Law Enforcement    Local Police   Sheriffs' Offices   Federal Law Enforcement   Tribal Law Enforcement   Campus Law Enforcement   Law Enforcement Training Academies   Forensic Investigation   Police-Public Contacts   Use of Force   Arrest-Related Deaths   Community Policing   Special Topics    Victims    Research and Development   Victim characteristics   Crime characteristics and trends   Victims and offenders   The Crime event   Reporting crimes to police   Special topics   Victim Service Providers       Corrections  Total correctional population  Local jail inmates and jail facilities  State and federal prisoners and prison facilities  Special populations  Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)  Expenditures/Employment  Recidivism  Capital Punishment  Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))  Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)  Courts   State Court Organization  State Court Caseload Statistics  Prosecutors Offices  Indigent Defense Systems  Tribal courts  Criminal Cases  Civil cases  Civil Rights  Crime Type   Violent Crime  Property Crime  Drugs and crime  Gangs  Hate Crime  Cybercrime  Identity Theft  Weapon Use  Location  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program   National Criminal History Improvement Program  State Justice Statistics Program  The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007  Employment and Expenditure   Federal  Law Enforcement  Prosecution  Courts  Corrections  Indian Country Justice Statistics   Law Enforcement  Local Police  Sheriffs' Offices  Federal Law Enforcement  Tribal Law Enforcement  Campus Law Enforcement  Law Enforcement Training Academies  Forensic Investigation  Police-Public Contacts  Use of Force  Arrest-Related Deaths  Community Policing  Special Topics  Victims   Research and Development  Victim characteristics  Crime characteristics and trends  Victims and offenders  The Crime event  Reporting crimes to police  Special topics  Victim Service Providers       Corrections | Total correctional population      Corrections | Local jail inmates and jail facilities     Jail inmate characteristics  Local jail facility characteristics     Corrections | State and federal prisoners and prison facilities     Prison population counts  Prison inmate characteristics  State and federal prison facility characteristics  Special topics     Corrections | Special populations     Federal Bureau of Prisons  Jails in Indian Country  Military  Territories  Immigration and Customs Enforcement  Juveniles     Corrections | Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)     Probation   Probation population counts   Parole   Parole population counts  Parole agencies      Corrections | Expenditures/Employment     Justice Expenditures and Employment data  Prison Expenditures     Corrections | Recidivism      Corrections | Capital Punishment     Number under sentence of death  Executions     Corrections | Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))     Local Jails  State Prisons  Federal Prisons     Corrections | Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)      Courts | State Court Organization      Courts | State Court Caseload Statistics      Courts | Prosecutors Offices      Courts | Indigent Defense Systems      Courts | Tribal courts      Courts | Criminal Cases     Felony defendants  Felony Sentences  Criminal appeals  Domestic violence cases  Juvenile defendants     Courts | Civil cases     Tort, contract and real property trials   Medical malpractice trials   Punitive damages in civil trials    Civil Appeals     Courts | Civil Rights      Crime Type  | Violent Crime     Homicide  Rape and Sexual Assault  Robbery  Assault  Stalking/intimidation     Crime Type  | Property Crime     Burglary  Larceny/theft  Motor vehicle theft  Cybercrime - Electronic crime  Identity theft     Crime Type  | Drugs and crime     Drug use and crime     Crime Type  | Gangs      Crime Type  | Hate Crime      Crime Type  | Cybercrime      Crime Type  | Identity Theft      Crime Type  | Weapon Use      Crime Type  | Location     Schools  Workplace     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | National Criminal History Improvement Program     State profiles  Special projects/collections     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | State Justice Statistics Program     State profiles     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007     State profiles     Federal | Law Enforcement      Federal | Prosecution      Federal | Courts      Federal | Corrections      Law Enforcement | Local Police      Law Enforcement | Sheriffs' Offices      Law Enforcement | Federal Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Tribal Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Campus Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Law Enforcement Training Academies      Law Enforcement | Forensic Investigation      Law Enforcement | Police-Public Contacts     Traffic Stops     Law Enforcement | Use of Force      Law Enforcement | Arrest-Related Deaths      Law Enforcement | Community Policing      Law Enforcement | Special Topics     Aviation Units     Victims | Research and Development     NCVS Redesign: Subnational  NCVS Redesign: Survey Instrument Redesign  Measuring Rape and Sexual Assault     Victims | Victim characteristics     Age  Race/ethnicity  Sex  Disabilities     Victims | Crime characteristics and trends     Violent crime  Property crime     Victims | Victims and offenders     Stranger and non-stranger crime  Offenders demographics     Victims | The Crime event      Victims | Reporting crimes to police      Victims | Special topics     Identity theft  Stalking  School crime     Victims | Victim Service Providers              Latest Releases     Requests for Police Assistance, 2011  Police Behavior during Traffic and Street Stops, 2011  Requests for Police Assistance, 2011  Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008  Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008      MORE LATEST RELEASES       FAQs     What percentage of persons in a motor vehicle or public place were stopped by police and searched or frisked?  What are the characteristics of persons who come into contact with the police for different reasons?      MORE FAQs           Home | Law Enforcement | Police-Public Contacts | Traffic Stops      This site requires a Javascript-enabled browser, click here for additional information.         Traffic Stops     On This Page         About this Topic  Data Collections & Surveys  Publications & Products               About this Topic       The most common reason for contact with the police is being a driver in a traffic stop. In 2011, an estimated 42% of face-to-face contacts that U.S. residents had with police occurred for this reason. About half of all traffic stops that year resulted in a traffic ticket. Approximately 3% of all stopped drivers were searched by police during a traffic stop.  These findings are based on the Police-Public Contact Survey (PPCS), a BJS survey that interviews U.S. residents about their contacts with police during the previous 12 months. Persons who reported more than one instance of face-to-face contact during the year are asked to describe the most recent occurrence. The PPCS has been conducted about every three years since 1996.  Summary findings   An estimated 26.4 million persons age 16 or older indicated that their most recent contact with the police in 2011 was as a driver pulled over in a traffic stop. These drivers represented 12% of the nation's 212 million drivers.  A greater percentage of male drivers (12%) than female drivers (8%) were stopped by police during 2011.  A higher percentage of black drivers (13%) than white (10%) and Hispanic (10%) drivers were stopped by police during 2011.  Stopped drivers reported speeding as the most common reason for being pulled over in 2011.  Approximately 80% of drivers pulled over by police in 2011 felt they had been stopped for a legitimate reason. In 2011, about 68% of black drivers believed police had a legitimate reason for stopping them compared to 84% of white and 74% of Hispanic drivers.  In 2011, about 3% of traffic stops led to a search of the driver, the vehicle, or both. Police were more likely to search male drivers (4%) than female drivers (2%).  A lower percentage of white drivers stopped by police in 2011 were searched (2%) than black (6%) or Hispanic (7%) drivers.   Back to Top      Data Collections & Surveys         Police-Public Contact Survey (PPCS)     State Police Traffic Stop Data Collection Procedures     Back to Top     Publications & Products            Requests for Police Assistance, 2011 Examines the characteristics and experiences of persons age 16 or older who contacted police to request assistance in 2011.       Press Release | PDF (952K) | ASCII file (23K) | Comma-delimited format (CSV) (Zip format 33K)      Police Behavior during Traffic and Street Stops, 2011 Examines the characteristics and experiences of persons age 16 or older who were stopped by police during traffic and street stops, and their perceptions of police behavior and response during these encounters.       Press Release | PDF (1.8M) | ASCII file (52K) | Comma-delimited format (CSV) (Zip format 64K)      Requests for Police Assistance, 2011 STUDY FINDS SOME RACIAL DIFFERENCES IN PERCEPTIONS OF POLICE BEHAVIOR DURING CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC       Press Release       Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008 Presents findings from a nationally representative survey of nearly 60,000 residents age 16 or older about their contact with police during the 12 months prior to the interview.       Press Release | PDF (932K) | ASCII file (48K) | Spreadsheet (Zip format 51K) | Codebooks and Datasets   Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008 CONTACTS BETWEEN POLICE AND THE PUBLIC DECLINED FROM 2002 TO 2008       Press Release   Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Average base starting salary for entry-level officers in local police departments, 2000 and 2003 Figure 7 from Local Police Departments, 2003       Download CSV file (Data Table 1 KB)      Local Police Departments, 2003 Full-time employment by local police departments, 1987-2003 Local Police Departments, 2003 Full-time employment by local police departments, 1987-2003       Spreadsheet (1K)      Contacts between Police and the Public, 2005 "Police stop white, black and Hispanic drivers at similar rates according to Department of Justice report"       Press Release | More information about this release       Contacts between Police and the Public, 2005 Presents data over a 12-month period on the nature and characteristics of face-to-face contacts between residents of the U.S. and the police. The report also provides demographic and other characteristics of residents involved in traffic stops and use of force incidents.       Press Release | PDF (305K) | ASCII file (32K) | Spreadsheet (Zip format 21K)  Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Citizen Complaints about Police Use of Force "Citizens complained more than 26,000 times in 2002 about excessive police force - Evidence in about 8% of complaints justified disciplinary action"       Press Release | More information about this release          MORE PUBLICATIONS & PRODUCTS     Back to Top               Bureau of Justice Statistics  About Us  BJS Data Protection Guidelines  BJS Data Quality Guidelines  BJS Statistical Principles and Practices  Jobs  Legal Policies and Disclaimers  OJP Freedom of Information Act  Privacy Policy  Scientific Integrity Statement    Web Site  A-Z Topical Index  Announcement Archive  Data and Product Finder  Department of Justice  FAQ  Help  Related Links  Site Map  Terms and Definitions    Partners  Crime SOLUTIONS.gov  Federal Bureau of Investigation  Federal Justice Statistics Resource Center  National Archive of Criminal Justice Data (NACJD)      Stay Connected  BJS RSS Feed  Contact Us  Subscribe to "JUSTSTATS"        Page last revised on 04/07/2018                                              Home     Forums     Search Forums  Recent Posts                 Your name or email address:     Password:    Forgot your password?       Stay logged in                                                                    Search titles only     Posted by Member:    Separate names with a comma.     Newer Than:       Search this thread only  Search this forum only   Display results as threads           More...      Useful Searches     Recent Posts                                Menu         Forums     Forums  Quick Links    Search Forums  Recent Posts          Menu          Log in      Sign up                            AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >             Odds of getting pulled over  Discussion in ' Off Topic ' started by FP , Dec 1, 2008 .        Page 1 of 3   1  2  3  Next >                    FP  Diamond Member       Joined:  Feb 24, 2005    Messages:  4,571    Likes Received:  0          1. You are driving a 10 year old SUV that is in OK shape with tags from CA.  2. You average 5 MPH over the speed limit and never drive erratically.  3. You drive for 10 hours and sleep for 8 hours until your destination. So you are driving during the day and night during the trip.  I would guess 25%. Purely based on the fact that most of the country would love to pull over a fruity CA car.         #1   FP ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Jschmuck2  Diamond Member       Joined:  Jul 13, 2005    Messages:  5,624    Likes Received:  1          Renew your license before you go.       #2   Jschmuck2 ,   Dec 1, 2008                      QurazyQuisp  Platinum Member       Joined:  Feb 5, 2003    Messages:  2,555    Likes Received:  0          I would say 1%. Except if you're driving through Ohio or Virginia.       #3   QurazyQuisp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Eli  Super Moderator<br>Elite Member   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 9, 1999    Messages:  50,430    Likes Received:  5          I'd say 2%.  I've driven over 100,000 miles in the last year while on the job, and was never pulled over once. Of course, I was only going between Oregon and California, but lol.       #4   Eli ,   Dec 1, 2008                       glenn1  Elite Member       Joined:  Sep 6, 2000    Messages:  22,412    Likes Received:  421          Agreed, presuming he's using major interstates where the main police presence is state troopers.  If he's using state highways and such, then he'll run into a lot more small town cops, then 25% is probably about right.        #5   glenn1 ,   Dec 1, 2008                      EagleKeeper  Discussion Club Moderator<br>Elite Member   Staff Member      Joined:  Oct 30, 2000    Messages:  42,600    Likes Received:  1          6 trips coast to coast over the past 5 years in sedan -3 in SUV  Stayed no more than 7-8 mph over limit.  Never even a blue light - Tags were not Ca       #6   EagleKeeper ,   Dec 1, 2008                       GagHalfrunt  Lifer       Joined:  Apr 19, 2001    Messages:  24,309    Likes Received:  1,500          1-3%. Unless you were unlucky enough to roll through a truly dishonest speed trap like one of the towns that gets their entire budget by such things you'd have to be VERY unlucky to be stopped. Cops don't notice 5 over on its own, it takes something else to get their attention.       #7   GagHalfrunt ,   Dec 1, 2008                       vi edit  Elite Member <br> Super Moderator   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 28, 1999    Messages:  58,519    Likes Received:  1,623          5% over on major interstates?  I'd say it's 1 in 1000(out of ass statistic) chance of getting pulled over.  Make sure all lights function properly, wear your seatbelt, and do the posted speed limits if passing through podunk towns for a bite to eat or refill.       #8   vi edit ,   Dec 1, 2008                       vi edit  Elite Member <br> Super Moderator   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 28, 1999    Messages:  58,519    Likes Received:  1,623          I'd also make sure any bumper stickers that say something to the effect of "Vote Yes for Medical Marijuana" or "Cops are dumb" are removed or covered up.       #9   vi edit ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Queasy  Moderator<br>Console Gaming       Joined:  Aug 24, 2001    Messages:  31,796    Likes Received:  0          Yeah, as long as you are not driving more than 5mph over the speed limit, your car is running fine, you aren't driving erratically, and you aren't doing blow while drinking beer with a 12 year old male prostitute...you should be fine.       #10   Queasy ,   Dec 1, 2008                      DayLaPaul  Platinum Member       Joined:  Apr 6, 2001    Messages:  2,072    Likes Received:  0          What ethnicity are you?       #11   DayLaPaul ,   Dec 1, 2008                      arrfep  Platinum Member       Joined:  Sep 7, 2006    Messages:  2,312    Likes Received:  2          8000 miles over two multi-state road trips.  IL-MO-KS-OK-TX-NM-AZ-CO-UT-WY-SD-MN-IL in 10 year old Mitsubishi Mirage 75% county roads, 25% Interstate.  IL-IN-OH-PA-VA-NC-TN-KY-IN-IL in a 13-year-old Saturn Station wagon.  50/50 backroads to Interstate. Never pulled over, no tickets, averaging 10% over on almost any road type.  Just make sure that you drive sensibly, and are never the fastest guy on the road.       #12   arrfep ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Farang  Lifer       Joined:  Jul 7, 2003    Messages:  10,922    Likes Received:  1          I haven't been pulled over for around 20,000 miles so I'd say 0.1%. I usually go 10 over and have done over 100 hours of long distance driving (300+ miles) and countless miles on state highways during that time.       #13   Farang ,   Dec 1, 2008                       zzuupp  Lifer       Joined:  Jul 6, 2008    Messages:  12,889    Likes Received:  1,330          On the interstates, more like 0%.       #14   zzuupp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      BlackTigers  Diamond Member       Joined:  Jan 15, 2006    Messages:  4,493    Likes Received:  1             Originally posted by: arrfep Just make sure that you drive sensibly, and are never the fastest guy on the road. Click to expand...   I think this is more important than anything.  Example: Friday I was cruising in the middle lane, with moderate traffic.  We were doing about 73 in a 55, and I  passed four speed traps.  Two staties and two locals.  Neither of which pulled out, because traffic was moving that fast.  But I was in the car with a friend who was pulled over for doing 62 on that very same stretch of road.  Only because we were the only car on the road - and thus the fastest.  =/         #15   BlackTigers ,   Dec 1, 2008                      BoomerD  Lifer       Joined:  Feb 26, 2006    Messages:  49,975    Likes Received:  1,123          We drove from Kahleeforneeya to Wisconsin, then the long way back (through Washington State) (6200 miles)  and the ONLY time we got pulled over was in outside a small town in Iowa. The Expedition was brand new and we didn't have ANY plates on the truck yet. Only took a few minutes to prove to the IHP that we wern't car thieves and that the vehicle was legal... and we were off again.  I really don't think Kahleeforneeya plates should be an issue anywhere unless the cop is just a prick with ears and a badge...and is looking for SOMETHING to fill his quota...        #16   BoomerD ,   Dec 1, 2008                      rezinn  Platinum Member       Joined:  Mar 30, 2004    Messages:  2,421    Likes Received:  0          I'd say zero. You're not special just because you have california plates. Just don't go a lot faster than everyone else and you won't get pulled over.       #17   rezinn ,   Dec 1, 2008                      nerp  Diamond Member       Joined:  Dec 31, 2005    Messages:  9,794    Likes Received:  67          I drove cross country and back in the summer of 2004 and didn't get stopped once. We hit 80-90mph on the 70mph limit freeways in the midwest. Passed cops on the highway. No problems. As long as you're not driving like a maniac and passing other cars liek crazy, you're good.       #18   nerp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      thescreensavers  Diamond Member       Joined:  Aug 3, 2005    Messages:  9,928    Likes Received:  1          less then 1% of speeding tickets are below 10 mph       #19   thescreensavers ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Capt Caveman  Lifer       Joined:  Jan 30, 2005    Messages:  34,278    Likes Received:  466          1%   I've driven back and forth cross country with MA and CA plates.  I avg'd probably 20 over and never got pulled over.       #20   Capt Caveman ,   Dec 1, 2008                      KillerCharlie  Diamond Member       Joined:  Aug 21, 2005    Messages:  3,595    Likes Received:  18          I've made an 1800 mile trip four times in the last five years and never got pulled over. I averaged about 10 mph over - I usually went the same speed as everyone else or a little faster, but not by much. If you're going 5 mph over you won't get pulled over.       #21   KillerCharlie ,   Dec 1, 2008                      PrinceofWands  Lifer       Joined:  May 16, 2000    Messages:  13,529    Likes Received:  0          I've driven coast to coast 3 times, never been stopped. I drive basically the way you describe (don't speed, don't drive erratic or aggressive, etc).       #22   PrinceofWands ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Elstupido  Senior member       Joined:  Jan 28, 2008    Messages:  643    Likes Received:  0          I always go about 3mph under the speed limit  and I never..... ever remove the tags from my bedding and pillows  Never had a ticket       #23   Elstupido ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Eli  Super Moderator<br>Elite Member   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 9, 1999    Messages:  50,430    Likes Received:  5             Originally posted by: Elstupido I always go about 3mph under the speed limit  and I never..... ever remove the tags from my bedding and pillows  Never had a ticket Click to expand...   3mph under the limit?  Paranoid much? lol       #24   Eli ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Bill Brasky  Diamond Member       Joined:  May 18, 2006    Messages:  4,346    Likes Received:  0             Originally posted by: DayLaPaul What ethnicity are you? Click to expand...   Sadly, this is a relevant question.       #25   Bill Brasky ,   Dec 2, 2008              (You must log in or sign up to post here.)   Show Ignored Content   Page 1 of 3    1  2  3  Next >               Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in                      Sign up now!      New Posts        Laura Ingraham losing advertisers after knocking David Hogg    Latest: bshole, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:02 PM    Politics and News          Auto accident, who is at fault    Latest: rh71, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:01 PM    Off Topic          Generational Tensions Within the New York Times    Latest: Hayabusa Rider, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:01 PM    Politics and News          Well who knew....U.S. budget deficit to balloon on Republican tax cuts: CBO    Latest: glenn1, Apr 10, 2018 at 1:59 PM    Politics and News          Ethereum GPU mining?    Latest: thilanliyan, Apr 10, 2018 at 1:58 PM    Video Cards and Graphics                AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >               Toggle Width     Style  Anandtech default style    Home  Contact Us  Help  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy   Top                   Copyright © 2016 Purch Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved Theme designed by Audentio Design .                             AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >           Skip to content  esurance on Tips & hacks for smarter living Menu  Police Reveal 4 Common Ways to Get Pulled Over By Alex Glenn    2.5k SHARES  VIEWS Tweet Share Reddit Pin Mail Google+ Print Whats App Tumblr LinkedIn Pocket Delicious Digg Subscribe Subscribe to our blog     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human: We’ve all seen it — someone changing lanes without signaling. Or a person driving while texting. And, if we’re honest, maybe we’ve even been that person. Nobody’s perfect. But when you’re trying to avoid being pulled over (which most of us are), it helps to know more about those bad driving habits we’ve all been (admittedly) guilty of at some point. Edmunds.com polled 3 police agencies to get an idea of the most common driving no-no’s that cops encounter . So, in the ongoing interest of helping us all become model motorists, here’s what Johnny Law had to say: Speeding (pulled over because you can’t drive 55 … in a 35 mph zone) In the Edmunds survey, every cop surveyed listed stopping speeding drivers as a main priority. So why do police officers key in on speeders? Well, issuing speeding tickets has a huge impact on safety. For every 100 extra speeding citations given in a month, there are 14.3 fewer crashes and 5.6 fewer injuries. Point is, if your need for speed gets the better of you, be prepared to put your money where your lead foot is — a whopping 34 million speeding tickets are handed out each year in the U.S. Distracted driving (pulled over because you’re texting, emailing, eating, and driving) The police officers surveyed say their main reasons for giving distracted-driving tickets include illegal texting and driving or other dangerous cell phone use. And with good reason, too. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, a stunning 40 percent of U.S. teens admit to having been in a car while the driver used a cell phone in an endangering way. We don’t know about you, but it seems this phenomenon can’t get enough police intervention. Equipment violations (pulled over because those windows are just a bit too dark) Equipment offenses are easy bait for tickets because they’re so simple to spot. A police officer doesn’t have to make any judgments about the situation. Rather, he or she can simply see that something isn’t up to code and make a move. According to the cops surveyed, the most glaring violation (pun intended) was illegal window tints. Following that were burned-out lights, broken windshields, and expired license plate tags. Tailgating and improper lane changes (pulled over because you’re bound to cause an accident) These 2 violations ranked as equally important on the Edmunds study. Both are reckless maneuvers that cops said they monitor closely. One police officer even qualified exactly what he thinks is considered a dangerous lane change: cutting someone off or moving without looking. Using the left lane for cruising instead of passing, driving too slowly, and squealing your tires are also high on the list. Use common sense When reviewing these offenses, it’s not exactly a surprise that they attract attention. True, you can’t control what other people will do on the road. But you can control yourself. So next time you notice you’re about to fall into one of these habits, think about the repercussions. Safe driving is good for you and everyone else on the road. Want to learn how these driving no-no’s can impact your car insurance? Check out our moving violations insight center . And if you do get pulled over by the police, remain calm and remember these 8 useful tips (during any time of year). Related: Find out what happens when you hand over your keys to the valet with these five valet parking confessions .  2.5k SHARES  VIEWS Tweet Share Reddit Pin Mail Google+ Print Whats App Tumblr LinkedIn Pocket Delicious Digg Subscribe Subscribe to our blog     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human: Safe and smart | Car safety  about Alex As copywriter for Esurance, Alex had professional experience in everything from film to literature to (thanklessly!) correcting the grammar in friends' emails. As a fervent Minnesota sports fan, he spends most of his non-writing time gently weeping into cereal bowls.  More by Author >  subscribe to our blog  Your email  Please select categories:    Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Leave this field empty if you're human:  visit our website For more tools and tips go to esurance.com .  protect your stuff Let Esurance help you protect the things that matter.  Select product  Auto Homeowners Renters Motorcycle   ZIP Code   quote  follow us   About Esurance | Esurance info center | Esurance mobile app | Stop by our website | Website accessibility © 2018 Esurance Insurance Services, Inc. All rights reserved.  You clearly enjoy good content Want more? Get fresh tips and hacks from Esurance delivered to your inbox every Monday.     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human:         DIY hacks Insurance 101 Travel hacks Safe and smart Smart technology All the news Subscribe to the blog Visit esurance.com Get a quote                                        LinkedIn                                                   Sign in    Join now         Main content starts below.      What Are the Odds of Getting Pulled Over By the Cops? Published on May 3, 2016 Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Follow Following Unfollow Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Sign in to follow this author Founder, NowSourcing | Google Board Member | 2,000+ Infographics Created | Featured: NYT, Forbes, Entrepreneur, Mashable Did you know your odds of getting pulled over by the police are different according to your race and gender? Hispanic and black drivers are more likely than their white counterparts to be searched and ticketed when they are pulled over. According to the statistics, though, force is not used as often as you might think.  Police use force in traffic stops 1.2% of the time. That’s a lot less than you might think because of constant news stories about excessive force. Even drivers upon whom force was used typically think it was necessary in hindsight, according to survey results.  The prison population is another story, though. Whereas your odds of being pulled over vary according to your race by 4 or 5 percentage points, blacks and Hispanics are considerably more likely than their white counterparts to spend time in prison. Learn more about how race affects your odds of interacting with the police from this infographic!  Follow Following Unfollow Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Sign in to follow this author Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Founder, NowSourcing | Google Board Member | 2,000+ Infographics Created | Featured: NYT, Forbes, Entrepreneur, Mashable 271 articles Looking for more of the latest headlines on LinkedIn? Discover more stories         Sign up    Help Center    About   Press  Blog  Developers    Careers  Advertising  Talent Solutions  Sales Solutions  Small Business  Mobile   Language    Bahasa Indonesia  Bahasa Malaysia  Čeština  Dansk  Deutsch  English  Español  繁體中文  Français  한국어  Italiano  简体中文  Nederlands  日本語  Norsk  Polski  Português  Română  Русский  Svenska  Tagalog  ภาษาไทย  Türkçe  العربية        Online Learning       Search Jobs    Directories  Members  Pulse  Topics  Companies  Universities  Titles  ProFinder    LinkedIn Corporation  © 2018   User Agreement  Privacy Policy  Community Guidelines  Cookie Policy  Copyright Policy  Unsubscribe                                       Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                      Wonkblog    The big question about why police pull over so many black drivers                  By Kim Soffen   By Kim Soffen  Email the author   July 8, 2016  Email the author  Follow @kimsoffen           President Obama made remarks to the International Association of Chiefs of Police, saying that police officers are "scapegoated for the broader failures of our society and criminal justice system." (WhiteHouse.gov)     Last October, President Obama told a gathering of police chiefs in Chicago about one way he had experienced racial bias before coming to the White House — while driving on the road.  "[M]ost of the time I got a ticket, I deserved it. I knew why I was pulled over. But there were times where I didn't," he said . "[T]here are a lot of African-Americans — not just me — who have that same kind of story of being pulled over. ...[T]he data shows that this is not an aberration. It doesn't mean each case is a problem. It means that when you aggregate all the cases and you look at it, you've got to say that there’s some racial bias in the system."  The fact that blacks get pulled over more than whites while on the road has long been a fact of American life. And on Wednesday evening, that reality became deadly when a Minnesota police officer shot and killed a black driver following a routine stop for a broken tail light, just one day after another fatal police shooting in Louisiana. (The violence continued in Dallas Thursday night, when snipers killed five police officers and injured more.)            1 of 58        Full Screen  Autoplay   Close                                                                                                                                          Skip Ad    ×            Protests in Minnesota and D.C. after a black man was fatally shot during a traffic stop       View Photos    Protesters gather in Falcon Heights, a St. Paul suburb, after the killing of 32-year-old Philando Castile.     Caption    Protesters gather in Falcon Heights, a St. Paul suburb, after the killing of 32-year-old Philando Castile.   July 10, 2016  A woman holds a sign as she marches with hundreds of others on streets in the District as they mourned and expressed outrage about the killings of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge and Philando Castile in St. Paul, Minn.  Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post   Buy Photo           Wait 1 second to continue.          While Obama is correct in asserting that blacks are disproportionately pulled over, it's actually rather hard to assess how much of the disparity is driven by racial discrimination by police officers. Data on driver race in police records is sparse, and it's hard to capture what's happening on a national scale. But what research has been done reveals a few key trends:  1) A survey released by the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 2014 found that nationwide, 13 percent of black drivers were stopped at least once by police during 2011, the last available data. For white drivers, that figure was 10 percent. Since this only captures whether drivers were stopped once, the disparity could be much bigger if black drivers were stopped more frequently than white drivers.     Though the BJS has not released more recent data, some individual states have these statistics, giving us reason to believe this pattern hasn’t gone away.  A study of Connecticut traffic stops in 2014 and 2015 — among the states with the most recent data — found that 14 percent of traffic stops targeted black drivers, despite them making up only 9 percent of the state’s population. Whites, on the other hand, made up 70 percent of the traffic stops, but about 80 percent of the population.  They also found the racial disparity was larger during the day than at night, when the officer can easily observe their race before turning on the sirens. The analogous statistic was not available for white drivers.  2) The racial disparity isn’t just limited to stops. Other police-driver contact — searches, tickets, arrests and license suspensions — show similar racial skews. A 2015 New York Times analysis found “wide racial differences in measure after measure of police conduct” in Ferguson, Mo., as well as in Connecticut, Illinois, North Carolina and Rhode Island, the states with the most comprehensive traffic stop data.  The Times analysis found that among the largest police departments in each of those four states, black drivers were between 1.5 and 5.2 times more likely to have their cars searched than white drivers.  These searches occur with the consent of the driver, so the officer doesn't need to meet any legal standard, like probable cause, to initiate one. Of course, he would need cause to pull over the driver in the first place, though minor violations like going a few miles over the speed limit or shifting lanes without a turn signal can offer that.       3) These disparities extend to other types of traffic stops. As far as tickets, a study of traffic stops in Bloomfield, N.J., released in April uncovered a high level of discrimination in ticketing. The majority-white town issued more than 80 percent of its tickets to black and Latino drivers from September 2014 to August 2015.  There are limits to what one can infer from one city, but same pattern was found across Connecticut. A 2015 analysis by the Hartford Courant found that black and Hispanic drivers who were stopped were 11 to 41 percent more likely to be ticketed than white offenders, depending on the offense committed.  And suspended licenses tell the same story. A report released earlier this year found that in California, black and Latino drivers are more likely than white drivers to be arrested for driving on a license suspended because of unpaid tickets, and minority neighborhoods have higher rates of license suspension than white ones.  4) While the data show conclusively that blacks have a disproportionate number of encounters with police at traffic stops, it hasn't shed much light on what portion of the disparity in all these metrics is driven by racial discrimination, and what portion is attributable to non-racial factors.  According to the National Institute of Justice , the research arm of the Department of Justice , other factors could include a difference in driving patterns — that is, if black drivers tend to just drive more miles than white drivers in certain jurisdictions, they could be stopped more often in those jurisdictions but have the same number of stops per mile. That would indicate against racial discrimination.  Further, black drivers could disproportionately drive in areas with a larger police presence, so they’re more likely to be pulled over than white drivers in less policed areas even without racial profiling by the police. Of course, if this is the case, it’s a bit of a chicken-and-egg problem. Are blacks pulled over disproportionately because they drive through highly policed areas (not discrimination), or are police highly packed into those areas because there are more black drivers (discrimination)?  The NIJ also cites a possible difference in committing stoppable offenses. Though many  studies find no difference between whites and blacks in driving habits, there is some evidence that seat-belt use is lower among black drivers and passengers, which could prompt disproportionate stops and tickets.  5) The situation gets even more complicated with respect to vehicle searches. In this case, it's less likely that these other factors are at work. It's more likely either statistical discrimination (targeting black people because they're more likely to be carrying contraband) and outright prejudice (targeting black people because of animus toward them). The first would indicate that black people are searched more because they’re more likely to carry contraband, while the latter would say that black people are searched more often because the police have an antagonism toward them.  It’s an important difference — the former is a result of the police maximizing the number of offenders who are caught, whereas the latter is a result of the police seeking to punish black drivers. The former — what people usually mean when they say "racial profiling" — is ethically controversial for literally targeting people of certain skin colors, but sometimes defended as merely an efficient use of resources. The latter, not so much.  In simple terms, the impact of these two types of discrimination can be compared by looking at the rate people of each race are caught with contraband after they’ve been searched. If black drivers are consistently less likely to be caught with contraband  than whites, that means the police are spending their time searching less-suspicious blacks rather than more-suspicious whites, indicating prejudice.  A 2006 study of police searches in Florida found no evidence of prejudice, but evidence of statistical discrimination. More recent figures from 2014 and 2015 published by the New York Times show blacks who are searched are around 20 percent less likely to be carrying contraband than whites who are searched. While that certainly raises the odds that prejudice is playing a role, it can't be said for certain without a more careful study.  To some, however, the distinction between statistical discrimination and outright prejudice isn't so great. “Racial profiling sends the dehumanizing message to our citizens that they are judged by the color of their skin,” reads a fact sheet from the Department of Justice. It cited a “moral obligation” to prohibit the practice. In other words, the department finds both statistical discrimination and prejudice to be unethical.  But others argue that racial discrimination in law enforcement is a cost-effective way to fight crime, a way to apprehend the most guilty people with the fewest officer hours.  New York City, under Mayor Michael Bloomberg,  fought to defend its “stop, question, and frisk” policy in court. Officers disproportionately stopped blacks by a large margin under the policy; that is, the officers statistically discriminated against them. The city's defense in court focused on the policy's impact — how many weapons were confiscated, how much crime had fallen — and less so on the racial disparity. The policy was struck down as an illegal search in federal court in 2013. The city filed an appeal at first, but Mayor Bill DeBlasio withdrew it after he assumed office, ending the practice.  Ethics aside, this is where the research leaves us: Black drivers certainly get more face-time with traffic cops. But to what extent that reflects discrimination, and whether that discrimination is based in racial prejudice, is more of an open question.       The officer who fatally shot Philando Castile, 32, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter. Here's what you need to know about the traffic stop gone wrong, which ended up live-streamed on Facebook. (Editor's note: This video has been updated.) (Monica Akhtar,Jenny Starrs,Gillian Brockell/The Washington Post)                                          Market Watch             Dow 24,447.29   Today   1.95%    S&P 2,657.02   Today   %    NASDAQ 7,068.2   Today   1.7%       Last Updated:12:01 PM 04/10/2018           Close    Now Playing                                                                       New Cars  Racing  Culture  Videos  Reviews  Subscribe   Give a Gift  Digital Editions      Follow                                                  Subscribe   Subscribe  Print Edition  Digital Edition  Give a Gift    News  Videos  New Cars   New Cars  First Drives  Road Tests  Long Term Tests  Comparison Tests  Future Cars & Spy Shots  Technology    Motorsports  Car Culture   Car Culture  Gear  Buying & Maintenance  Vintage  Style  Travel  Entertainment  Profiles  Design    Car Shows   Car Shows  National Auto Shows  Chicago Auto Show  Detroit Auto Show  Los Angeles Auto Show  New York Auto Show  International Auto Shows  Beijing Auto Show  Frankfurt Auto Show  Geneva Auto Show  Paris Auto Show  Qatar Auto Show  Seoul Auto Show  Shanghai Auto Show  Tokyo Auto Show    The Code  Follow   Follow  Facebook  Twitter  Google+  Pinterest  Instagram  YouTube    Win               Type keyword(s) to search              Today's Top Stories   1   Next-Gen Toyota 86, Subaru BRZ May Get More Power        2   15 Classic Cars That Are Criminally Overlooked        3   Crown Jewels:  Carrera GT, Enzo, SLR McLaren        4   Your Driving Coach Might Be Giving Dangerous Tips        5   Here's Every New Car That's 200 MPH or Faster           How to Reduce the Odds of Being Ticketed When You're Pulled Over  Obviously there are no guarantees, but this advice just might help.              By Collin Woodard     Nov 17, 2016                               Getty Images Joseph C. Justice, Jr.             No one likes getting pulled over, but unfortunately, it happens all the time. Maybe you're late to a meeting and get caught speeding. Or perhaps you roll a stop sign. Heck, sometimes you just miss the sign telling you that you're in a school zone. Whatever the cause, almost every driver knows the sinking feeling of seeing flashing blue lights in their rear-view mirror.  Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    But not every traffic stop has to result in a ticket. Consumer protection attorney and R&T contributor Steve Lehto has a full 25 years of experience dealing with traffic tickets (some of which are his own), speaking with officers, and listening to his own clients. In his latest podcast, he goes through the best ways to avoid getting ticketed. Some of his advice is relatively well-known, like the fact that you should pull over quickly when you see the lights come on. But a lot of what he has to say isn't as obvious. Give it a listen, and while we can't guarantee it'll work, following his advice will definitely help you out the next time you get pulled over.        Advertisement - Continue Reading Below         Advertisement - Continue Reading Below                         Share       Tweet       Email           More From  Car Culture         Coolest Cars with Boring Engines?       2018 DINAN S1 BMW M550i xDrive: First Drive     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below        The Next Land Rover Defender Will Come to the US        The Lamborghini You Forgot Is Still Lovely        Consider the Matador       Audi's Vision Gran Turismo Is a 804-HP Electric            12 Cars We Never Expected These Brands to Build          Why There Are Only Five Original K.I.T.T.s Left        So Many People Are Buying Crossovers It's Ridic        The Ferrari Superfast Sounds Super Good            Car Culture    When Should You Fight a Traffic Ticket?    10 tips to avoid speeding tickets    A Traffic Ticket Won't Be Thrown Out Because the Cop Made a Typo    How to lower the odds of getting ticketed during a traffic stop    Speeding Below the Speed Limit    Watch a cop on horse pull over a motorcycle    ticket    speeding ticket    traffic stop    steve lehto                                                               Digital Edition  Newsletter  About Us  Media Kit  Press Room  Contact Us  Community Guidelines  Advertise Online  About Our Ads  Customer Service  Subscribe  Other Hearst Subscriptions  Best Products  Give a Gift  Giveaways  Being Green  Why Did I Get This Ad?  Shop R&T   A Part of Hearst Digital Media  Road & Track participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.   ©2018 Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Terms of Use  Sitemap                 Share       Tweet       Email                      Skip to content           GO                                Go                                About  Contact  CT Mirror  CTViewpoints  Our data            TrendCT  The story in numbers       TrendCT (https://trendct.org/2015/07/06/police-tickets-in-connecticut/)                  About  Contact  CT Mirror  CTViewpoints  Our data      Global Navigation              Crime  When do police most often pull over drivers? And for what?  By  Andrew Ba Tran | July 6, 2015  Like Tweet  Email Print  More     More on Crime   Subscribe to Crime            Andrew Ba Tran Data Editor    The day before the Fourth of July produced the fifth-highest daily count of traffic stops last year in Connecticut.  This is according to traffic-stop data from the Office of Policy and Management, which is available because of a law compelling law enforcement agencies to electronically submit their traffic-stop information. Analysts have looked at the data and said they found significant racial disparities in some municipal departments and State Police troops.  But there is still more to discover in such a rich data set.  So TrendCT took a deeper look at the nearly 600,000 tickets issued in Connecticut between October 2013 and September 2014. We’ll be running several stories looking at various parts of the data. But today, we’re looking at when police most often pull drivers over — and for what.  When are you most likely to get pulled over?  We’ll start with the raw totals throughout the year.   It’s easier to see why some days have such a high tally, given their proximity to federal holidays. More people on the road means more opportunities for citations.  But a couple of days in May and September are among the 10 days with the most traffic stops. If anyone knows why those days in particular seem to yield a high number of tickets, let us know in the comments below.     Daily average number of tickets  Based on the first seven days, the last seven days, and the days between of each month.     First week  Middle weeks  Last week      6,333  6,453  6,764     CTData Collaborative   Those high-volume days, plus Memorial Day and Labor Day, make September and May the heaviest months of the year for drivers getting pulled over.  The colder months of February and December are periods when police stop drivers the least.  More stops occur on average during the last seven days of the month versus all other days. In fact, days during the last week of the month yield about 400 more traffic stops on average than days during the first week.  What are drivers most often ticketed for?  More than 25 percent of all drivers getting pulled over in Connecticut were speed-related, making it the top offense.  Interestingly, cell phone use while driving is the category with the fourth-most stops. It was introduced as a violation in 2005 . The state police pulled drivers the most for this violation (15,718 tickets), followed by Danbury and Wallingford (2,465 and 1,339 respectively).   The generic “Other” is the second-most-common reason drivers get stopped. “Other” could refer to things like violating exhaust emission inspection requirements and driving without a license.  But looking more closely, about 48 percent of all “Other” traffic stops were for “ failure to observe parkway or expressway restrictions “. This could be interpreted as a way for officers to ticket drivers for exceeding the speed limit, but without the higher fines and consequences of a speeding ticket.   Related Stories   Who gets off with a warning after a traffic stop in Connecticut?  What time of day drivers get pulled over in Connecticut?  Police departments that hand out the most traffic tickets in Connecticut  When do police most often pull drivers over? And for what?  Connecticut’s deep data dive on racial profiling  Q&A with the CT Data Collaborative: What to watch out for when analyzing the racial profiling data          About Andrew Ba Tran Andrew is a data editor at TrendCT.org and the Connecticut Mirror. He teaches data visualization at Central Connecticut State University as well intro to data journalism at Wesleyan University as a Koeppel Fellow.

He was a founding producer of The Boston Globe's Data Desk where he used a variety of methods to visualize or tell stories with data. Andrew also was an online producer at The Virginian-Pilot and a staff writer at the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. He’s a Metpro Fellow, a Chips Quinn Scholar, and a graduate of the University of Texas.         More by Andrew   What do you think?        mathlady     Perhaps the early September ones coincide with the start of school in many areas?        Don     This is correct.  Most departments beef up enforcement inside school zones for the first week of school.          RuthGT     Federal grants to support state/local enforcement efforts are generally available around holidays.  Perhaps similar grants were available during those May/Sept dates?           Sponsored by     Trending  Where children suffer from lead poisoning in Connecticut    What your neighbors are charging strangers on Airbnb to stay in their homes    Where Syrian refugees and immigrants live in Connecticut   Who we are    What is Trend CT?    Databases        Traffic stops in Connecticut  Look up local police departments      Your School Comparison  Explore data on your school      Campaign contributions  Pres. candidate donations      Tracking legislation  Search bills by subject     Tutorials  Tutorial: How to create R functions and packages    A gentle introduction to APIs for data journalists    Cleaning up CT place names in Python    Tutorial: Spatial analysis of census and traffic stop data using R    Real-world data cleanup with Python and Pandas    The CT Mirror CT’s performance on ‘Nation’s Report Card’ doesn’t budge Sandy Hook Promise founder Mark Barden weighs 5th District race Zuckerberg apologizes, Blumenthal says that’s not enough  CT Viewpoints The value of a young mind — a Hartford case in point To save Connecticut, we must open the 2017 SEBAC agreement We can reverse the decline of race relations Topics   Animals   Announcement   Budget   Business   Crime   Data   Data problem   Demographics   Drugs   Education   Election   Energy   Environment   Featured   Food   Game   guns   Health   Health Care   Housing   Income   Jobs   Lists   lottery   Meta   Open Data   Politics   Poverty   Religion   Sports   Traffic   Transportation   Walkthrough   Weather               Home  About  Contact      Story  Teaser    Explore CT school districts’ achievement gap by race and ethnicity       Story Teaser    2015 DataHaven Community Wellbeing Survey navigator       Our partner sites The Connecticut Mirror  CT Viewpoints      Sponsors Hartford Foundation For Public Giving                   © Copyright 2018, CT Mirror     Built with the Largo WordPress Theme from the Institute for Nonprofit News .    Back to top ↑                                                              brobible  Gear           Style           Culture           Sports           Success           Fitness           Relationships           Shop                 Search for:       About BroBible    About  Privacy  Terms     Facebook   Twitter   Instagram   YouTube   FlipBoard   Get brobible Everywhere.       Follow @brobible     Follow brobible        FlipBoard                             The Bangor Maine Police Department Is Doing It Right      Life   Here’s How To Reduce The Odds Of Getting A Ticket When You Get Pulled Over By Police  #Travel  by Paul Sacca  1 year ago       Facebook Twitter FlipBoard   Via Flickr  There will be 43.5 million Americans hitting the road this week as they visit family and friends over the Thanksgiving break, an increase of 1.9% compared to last year according to AAA . You’ll be out on the highways and byways, so there’s a chance that you’ll be late to your nana’s house for Aunt Brenda’s famous mac n’ cheese and get pulled over for speeding. But there just might be a glimmer of hope for you to avoid getting a traffic ticket.  Steve Lehto , who has been practicing Lemon Law and Consumer Protection for 23 years, has come out with a video that will teach you how to reduce your chances of getting a traffic ticket this busy holiday week.  When those flashing lights are behind you there are certain things you can do to accommodate the police officer so they are more likely to accommodate you and not give you a ticket that could cost you thousands.  Tips On How To Reduce Your Odds Of Getting A Traffic Ticket:   As soon as you see a police cruiser behind you do not jam on the breaks, instead coast.  Pull over quickly, but safely, using your blinker and caution.  Steer your car to the side of the road and try to get as far to the right as possible.  Roll down your window completely.  Turn on your overhead interior light.  Put your hands on the steering wheel at 10 and 2.  Do not admit that you broke the law.  The cop may ask “Do you know how fast you were going?” Say “I’m sorry officer, I don’t know how fast I was going, I apologize.”  If asked for license, registration, and insurance, tell the officer that you are going to get the papers for him and explain your hand movements.  While the officer is checking your information, sit still while waiting for the cop to return, and don’t make sudden movements.  Do not say anything remarkable to the officer during the traffic stop that may incriminate you in court later.   In a time when police officers are being ambushed during traffic stops , it’s a wise decision to make their and your experience as safe and pleasant as possible. Being polite, courteous, and respectful to law enforcement is more likely to get you out of an expensive ticket or have a reduced charge. While being disrespectful and mouthing off to the police will only hurt you in the end.  May you have safe and ticket-free travels this holiday season.       Share This   Facebook  Twitter  FlipBoard      TAGS Cops driving Police tickets Travel      Join The Discussion                                           Guyism  About BroBible  Advertise  Staff  Events & Concerts  Write for BroBible  Terms  Privacy  Tip Off    Copyright © 2008-2018 BroBible. All rights reserved.  Powered by WordPress.com VIP                          Post to     Cancel           This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Police Procedures  Police and Law Enforcement  Cars and Automobiles What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 11 Answers   John Wayne Jones , Former SWAT, F-15C/F-5E pilot Retired Airline Captain. Answered Apr 20, 2017 · Author has 811 answers and 3.5m answer views It depends on how you drive, where you live, what time of day you are typically on the road, what you drive, how loud your exhaust is, whether you spin your tires or not…things that draw attention to your car are bad- spinning your tires, loud exhaust, jackrabbit starts, all of these things get cops looking. Tint your windows dark and cruise around neighborhoods at 2 am, or drive fast, or aggressively in traffic…and cops will definitely want to meet you. Cruise around, driving like a kid during the peak times for partiers to leave the bar, and you will surely have a blue fan club. I never get tickets even if I do get pulled over, because I speak cop fluently. But I haven’t been pulled over in 8 years, and it was 6 years before that…so twice in 14 years, and I own a hotrod shop, and have 16 cars in my personal collection, which all have 800–1200hp, including a Lamborghini and an Audi R8 GT. Even in a supercar, you can drive and even drive fast, and remain invisible. It is an art, really… B^) 5.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  J Sup Related Questions More Answers Below What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? My car is at a different location, torn apart. Can I get a police escort to go and get it? Can a police officer go through your wallet if you are not around or in the car if someone else gets pulled over? Ask New Question   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Sep 9, 2016 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Any statistic that addressed all drivers on the road would be misleading, as there is a subset of drivers who get pulled over on a regular basis. Me, I get pulled over about once every ten years. You might as well as what your chances are of tearing your ACL on any given day. If you work at a desk job and are fairly sedentary, pretty low. If you are a professional or amateur athlete who plays in contact sports a lot, you have a orthopedist on speed dial. It all depends on your driving habits. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Rick Fox and  Jack Nai promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   John Sergent Answered Jun 15, 2015 · Author has 2.9k answers and 1.2m answer views I don't know whether that number is accurate. But the thing is, there's no point in even trying to calculate whether it's reasonable or not, because it doesn't mean anything. If it isn't simply made up (which is most likely) then it still leaves out everything that affects whether you will be pulled over or not: how you drive, what you drive, where you drive (including whether random stops, DUI checkpoints, etc. are common there) and, sadly, race and so forth. Just taking how many times a vehicle is entered and comparing it to the number of times one is pulled over has no value by itself. 6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Alexander Selkirk , Motor Sport Nerd, I like to wrench on my own cars Answered Jun 23, 2015 · Author has 260 answers and 342.7k answer views It very much depends on circumstances and your driving. If you drive like me - somewhat like an Italian but more controlled - in the USA where many cops are assigned to writing tickets, you'll get pulled about once in every 800 trips. Here in Texas, if it's late at night, the cop is bored and you're not white, you may be pulled for no reason at all. The "Driving While Brown" thing is no longer common here in Austin. If you drive in rural areas and don't speed much or know the local deputies, probably never, even for a DUI. I suspect the average is lower than 1 in 2000 at least here in Austin. 4.9k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , car enthusiast. Answered Jun 19, 2015 · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.3m answer views That answer is very likely fictitious.  I would ask that "someone" to provide you with their source for such a claim.  The real odds of you getting pulled involve many variables including but not limited to: Location, time of day, day of month, season, race, gender, type of vehicle, color of vehicle, number of police per citizen on the road, if there is any type of special enforcement mission going on, condition of your vehicle, etc.  I could go on forever.  There are several steps that you, the driver, can take prior to leaving on a trip to reduce your risk of being stopped.  I would recommend two things: Make sure your vehicle is in good working order and obey the traffic laws.  You may still be stopped, though.  Sometimes it just happens. 5.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by SimScale Learn how to use CFD simulation to comply with EN 15251 standard. Free webinar on HVAC design optimization and testing with CFD to ensure thermal comfort for EN 15251. Sign Up at simscale.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Phil Yerington , studied at Police and Law Enforcement Answered Jul 31, 2017 · Author has 1.5k answers and 846.4k answer views I'm not sure I agree with the statistic you provided. Nor am I sure there's a legitimate way to calculate that figure. I've known people who have never been stopped by an officer and people who are habitual violators who seem to get stopped frequently. I stopped an elderly gentleman once in the 1990’s who provided me his driver's license that he'd received in the 1940’s! He never applied for a reissuance because he had never been stopped and told to do so! Driving habits dictate how many times, if ever, a person might be stopped by the police while driving. 2.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  John Cox ,  Rashad Battle , and 1 more   Marc Whinery , studied at School for the Talented and Gifted Answered Sep 27, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views “ What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car?” Well, as “you” is me, and I’ve been pulled over about once every 10 years, since I started driving newer/nicer cars, and I average 2+ trips a day, I’ll call that about 1/4000. Before I started driving new cars, I was young and in cars that “fit the profile” better, and my odds were more like 1/400. The average person would get pulled over about the 1/2000 you mention, but there is no average person. 1.3k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Patti Haskins   Tim Gordon Answered Jan 5, 2017 · Author has 2.4k answers and 2m answer views What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? In reality, it’s probably about impossible to quantify that. You can certainly be in a position where your odds are higher , but every time you get in the car? I don’t know of anyone who has that happening! If you keep a low profile and don’t stand out and are a fairly conservative driver, you probably have a very slim chance of being pulled over if you’re in a ‘reasonable’ locale. One in two thousand is probably not unrealistic for many people. For many of us, two thousand separate automobile trips might be, what, three to four years’ worth of driving? I can see being pulled over once in four years. Precisely what one is being pulled over for wasn’t specified. Most of the times I’ve been pulled over it’s been for the officer to inform me that I’ve got a taillight out or the like and no citation or even a written warning is issued. The State Patrol is especially good about this in my state. They’re not looking to jack people for revenue, they really are concerned more about public safety than anything. I guess that makes sense since they’re part of the state’s Department of Public Safety. 2.9k Views Quora User , Sometimes cops are crooked. Answered May 2, 2016 · Author has 242 answers and 255.7k answer views It depends on: What you drive How you drive Where you drive Driving a red Porsche on the local road here that goes to the court house, likely a ticket every time... If there is anything the can bust you on. 983 Views Quora User , I'm not wearing a safety pin and this ain't your safe place. Answered Jun 17, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 909.1k answer views There is no easy answer to this question, or any way to calculate the odds. The only real answer would be, it depends on how many time you violate a law, generally. 418 Views · Answer requested by  Robyn Hennessy   Steve Taylor , studied at N. E. Tech Answered Sep 28, 2017 · Author has 678 answers and 127.7k answer views Slim, even if not obeying the law. More so in populated areas like cities, where police have more to worry about than that. 4 Views Related Questions Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" Why does the police pull me over every time I get off work as a bouncer at a local bar in a small town? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? How do police pull over more than one car at the same time for speeding? Do police chiefs get weekends off? They go to the department every day. Would you get pulled over just because a car looks like it can go fast? What happens if I speed past a police car who has pulled someone over? When the police pull a car over, why does the officer position his or her car facing the road? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? My car is at a different location, torn apart. Can I get a police escort to go and get it? Can a police officer go through your wallet if you are not around or in the car if someone else gets pulled over? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" Why does the police pull me over every time I get off work as a bouncer at a local bar in a small town? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Auto Insurance  Interacting with Police  Insurance  Police and Law Enforcement What are the chances of me getting pulled over by a cop? My car is registered and I have insurance but not a license. Update Cancel Answer Wiki 8 Answers   John Geare , Holder of CIC Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 6.9k answers and 20.9m answer views Some not very good information about auto insurance in the USA, so here is the real deal: In the basic personal auto policy, which virtually all insurers use (subject to a few tweaks, here and there) the word "license" occurs just once.  Here is the redacted material: " This policy may be cancelled ...as follows: If your driver's license or that of Any driver who lives with you; or Any driver who customarily uses "your covered auto"; has been suspended or revoked.  If the policy was obtained through material misrepresentation. " Note that the wording is very cagey, here. It says the policy may , not will be canceled. Note as well that the basis for cancellation is suspension or revocation . Merely not having a license is not grounds for canceling. Finally, you'll see that material misrepresentation (lying) when obtaining the policy also allows the insurance company to say "adios." So, why the weasily words? Well, one very good reason is that there are plenty of auto owners who don't have a license; they own the car for the benefit of someone else to drive. Perhaps an elderly parent or grand parent who buys the car for a teen who lacks the funds. (As an agent I had always suggested that they give the money to the person, rather than provide the car -things are "cleaner," that way). There are also the cases in which one spouse who has title to the vehicles has had his or her license suspended or revoked. That driver may be excluded (individually canceled, as it were) from coverage specifically, without need of canceling the entire policy. But you will NOT find any material which will result in a denial of a claim because the driver was unlicensed. Why not? Because that would be against public policy. The whole idea is that 3rd party financial capacity (the insurance company) will be there to satisfy the claims of injured parties in case of an accident. To refuse the claim because of a license matter would result in a huge number of claims going unpaid. Now, as for the question at hand: getting caught by the cops without a license will evoke whatever penalties are involved for that (depends on the state). This assumes you don't have a license at all, not that you have one, but lost it or left it at home, etc. If the disclosure comes as the result of an accident, the insurance will pay for injuries and damage to property of others (and to the driver's own car, if covered). The insurance company will note from the accident report that their driver had no license, and will probably then cancel the policy. Here is a copy of the basic policy, which you may consult. https://www.independentagent.com...  As to the "chances" of being pulled over: except to the extent that you may drive a bit nervously owing to the lack of a license, the chances of being pulled over will depend on how you drive, not on having a license. Hope that helps. 1.6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Policygenius The easy way to compare and buy life insurance online. Compare quotes from over 15 life insurance companies and save. Get Quote at policygenius.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below If a cop who has pulled me over walks toward my car, would anything happen if I get out of my car holding my license? Why do cops not pull over cars without license plates? Would cops pull you over just because you have a luxurious car? What do you need to do to get a car registered, tagged, and insured without a license in Maryland? Can a cop pull over 2 or more cars at once? Ask New Question   Miranda Marcus , Adventure is Worthwhile! Answered Feb 6, 2016 · Author has 1.6k answers and 5.1m answer views This answer is for the USA (mostly the Midwest) Whether or not you get pulled over depends on: Your appearance The neighborhoods you drive in The type of car you are driving How well you follow driving laws Here are some driving violations which have been used to pull over people I know: Speeding (even 1 MPH over) Music too loud (it was very loud) Not coming to a complete stop at a stop sign Not using a turn signal Running a red light (maybe you pushed that yellow a bit too much) Expired registration stickers Following the car in front of you too closely Reckless driving (this one could be used to justify pulling anyone over at any time just by claiming you went out of your lane a little) Driving too slow (5 MPH or more under the speed limit) Look at that list.  No one is such a good driver and so conscientious that you could never violate any of these rules. Regardless, some people go a very long time without getting pulled over.  At the risk of jinxing myself, I haven't been pulled over in over 10 years.  One significant reason (I suppose) is that I don't look suspicious.  I am white, female, and I now drive boring normal cars.  The two times I was pulled over were when I looked far less normal. The first time was when I was driving a rusted out barely moving clunker which I had lovingly covered in cheap stickers and duct tape.  I didn't have a front license plate because the holder had rusted through and I hadn't made the effort to fix it.  The coolant tank was held in place with an old belt and I carried a jug of water in my trunk at all times in case of overheating.  The second time I was pulled over I was driving a red little sporty car in a bad neighborhood while dressed in full goth with an even more goth passenger.  These days, I look much less interesting on the road. My husband is dark-skinned Mexican.  He had a sporty car he loved and was proud of owning, but driving it increased his number of times being pulled over from zero ever when driving his work van to once every couple months in his nice car.  Same guy, same driving skills, same area, huge difference in rate of getting pulled over.  Eventually he returned to driving his work van and never getting pulled over. I have known some black people who have a huge increase in getting pulled over, regardless of type of car or location.  Dressing like a yuppie and driving a bland car and help a bit, but not entirely.  I knew a middle-aged black engineer who was pulled over in his own neighborhood because he "looked like he didn't belong". So, how likely are you to be pulled over?  It depends quite a bit on how you look and what kind of car you drive.  The more you can look like you belong and don't stand out, the less likely you will be to get pulled over. I have never met anyone more aware of this phenomenon than a professional criminal whom I once made the mistake of caring about.  He was always in and out of jail, but always for driving violations, not his other activities because those were harder to get evidence on.  In Ohio, you can be locked up for 6 months for driving on a suspended license, it just depends on how much the cops don't like you. When my husband was unable to get a driver's license, due to not having a visa, he was always able to pay a fine to get out jail the same day he was pulled over.  So, if you have money and aren't up to no good, the worst you'll likely face is losing a couple hundred dollars in fines, bonds, and getting your car out of impound.  However, if you're unlucky you could spend half a year in jail (or get deported if you don't have a visa and aren't in a "sanctuary city"). Consider the risks and rewards carefully. Oh and also, in Ohio at least, someone who let's an unlicensed driver use their car can be charged with "wrongful entrustment" which can lead to a 6 month jail sentence (I learned about this law the hard way).  So think about what you could be doing to the owner of the car you're driving. 1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Truthfinder Find anyone's arrest record instantly. Truthfinder is a leading source to find arrest records. Enter a name and state to see results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Jennifer Ellis , I am not an insurance expert. But I do have to buy it. Answered Jan 29, 2016 · Author has 12.9k answers and 42.2m answer views Good. Your chances are good. Everyone's chances are good for getting pulled over. Driving without a license is a pretty serious offense. If you are caught without it, aside from expensive fines, any chance you have to get your license back will be greatly impacted. Also, your insurance may not be valid. That means if you are in an accident, your insurance may refuse to cover you. Why? Because you cannot be insured as a driver under an insurance policy if you don't have a license. People who do not have licenses, do not generally have valid insurance. There are some very limited circumstances where this is acceptable, and they usually involve people who are unable to drive, swear they will never drive the car, and are purchasing insurance so other people can drive them. Can I get auto insurance without a driver's license?  4.3k Views · View Upvoters If you require legal assistance, please contact a lawyer in yo... (more) Loading… Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Roger Taylor , studied at FCM Answered Mar 21, 2017 · Author has 326 answers and 172.5k answer views Registered to whom? You? If the car was registered to you, and then your license was suspended. Anytime your plate was ran it would show up as your license being suspended. I know a county deputy who is able to run 3 or 4 plates at once, automatically. That's technology working for you. When he is in traffic on multi lane roads, his cars computer system is running every plate it can see. Then it is telling him everything about the person the car is registered to. If it's someone else's car and you just don't have a license, that can get ugly. Why would they loan you a vehicle if you have no drivers license? They didn't know it? It's their responsibility to make sure that anyone who uses their car has a proper license to drive it. So if you get pulled over and have no license, chances are good that the car would be towed. Oh, that would make the owner of the car happy as they would be responsible for paying the tow bill. That's part of the owner being responsible to only allow people with a license drive a car they own. Get caught driving without a license or driving on a suspended license more than once. You might get a few days, weeks, months or even years behind bars. And if you have a wreck and someone is seriously injured, or killed. Ouch! 313 Views   Kathleen Grace , artist, photographer, top writer 2015,16,17,18 Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 11.9k answers and 13.4m answer views The registration and insurance would need to be shown after you are pulled over, they would not be an issue until that point. What would get you pulled over are traffic violations like speeding or rolling stop,  or vehicle equipment violations, say a broken tail light. So, if you drive well, obey traffic laws, and don't draw attention to yourself by driving erratically, the likelihood is low. The chances do increase though every time you roll that car onto the road. The more you drive, the more chance you create for a potential to be pulled over - even looking worried when you see a cop could make you look suspicious. Keep driving and the odds grow against you. Whatever the reason, the car is legal, you aren't. You need to fix that. 815 Views · View Upvoters   Leonid S. Knyshov , I understand insurance well, but I am not a licensed professional Answered Jan 29, 2016 · Author has 7.1k answers and 9.5m answer views If you never had a driver's license, you will likely attract police attention very quickly because you probably don't have the experience of driving smoothly with the flow of traffic. That only comes with seat time behind the wheel. If you had a license and it's now suspended or revoked, you will likely go to jail if caught. The police may consider you as driving a stolen vehicle. Your father should not give you permission to drive his vehicle without a valid license. Therefore, you are stealing it. You only own that vehicle if your name is on the title even if it was purchased with your money. 700 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , I'm not wearing a safety pin and this ain't your safe place. Answered Jan 31, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 909.1k answer views If you are driving, and not committing any violations, then your chances are slim to none.  An officer should have at the very least reasonable suspicion that a crime or traffic violation is being committed. If the officer knows you personally, or is, familiar with your history and knows you have no license, then he most likely will stop you. If an officer pulled up behind your vehicle at a stop light and just happens to run your tag, and it shows you are the registered owner and that you are unlicensed, most likely you will be stopped. 312 Views · View Upvoters   Roland Bavington , Salesperson (hero), father (hero) and trainee CX hero Answered Jan 30, 2016 · Author has 144 answers and 115.4k answer views Please don't do this. Your insurance won't be valid if you don't have a licence, this means that if you do have a crash which is your fault and leave someone disabled or otherwise seriously injured you will have no way to provide them with the money that your insurance company would have paid out and which could have mitigated the immense change you have wrought in their life or lives. Dont do it, it's selfish and short sighted. 460 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions Is this legal?  A cop pulled me over because he entered the wrong license plate number. Can a cop tell you to get off your phone while he has you pulled over? What happens when a cop gets pulled over by another cop for a DUI? Can cops run a background check on you if you get pulled over? What happens if you get pulled over with no proof of insurance in NJ? What can happen if you get pulled over on a moped (50cc) without a license, tags or insurance? Can an insured & licensed minor rent a car after their car is wrecked and they were not at fault? Why do cops pull over people with sport cars or super cars? I was hit in rear. I was completely stopped. The car was repaired. Now I have noticed some transmission issues. I took it in, and the insuranc... Can a cop block a two lane road when they pull over a car? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions If a cop who has pulled me over walks toward my car, would anything happen if I get out of my car holding my license? Why do cops not pull over cars without license plates? Would cops pull you over just because you have a luxurious car? What do you need to do to get a car registered, tagged, and insured without a license in Maryland? Can a cop pull over 2 or more cars at once? Is this legal?  A cop pulled me over because he entered the wrong license plate number. Can a cop tell you to get off your phone while he has you pulled over? What happens when a cop gets pulled over by another cop for a DUI? Can cops run a background check on you if you get pulled over? What happens if you get pulled over with no proof of insurance in NJ? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Colors (vision)  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement  Cars and Automobiles What color car is least likely to get pulled over by the police? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 18 Answers   Shay Fowler , works at Self-Employment Answered Nov 24, 2015 From experience I can tell you that newer cars that aren't sporty get pulled over less than older cars or sport cars. When I was driving my new powder blue Toyota, I was never pulled over. When that car went into the shop (for a solid month... terrible story) I borrowed my daughter's 'beater' Dodge Neon. It was a hand-me-down with peeling paint and dents. I was pulled over four times in four weeks. Never for speeding or messing up. The cops all had different excuses. One time the officer said that he couldn't clearly see my inspection sticker. Another time the officer said that he 'smelled something' as I drove past. One time he thought my tires looked low on tread. I argued that they were NEW tires and he ended up agreeing with me and letting me go. (That guy wasn't a bad man. He came out to my house once when I was complaining about a dog attacking my kids in my yard and was nice as can be.) Can't remember the 4th excuse. Never even got a warning, let alone a ticket. I never did anything wrong. I'm the same driver. The same middle-aged woman. Driving on the same roads that I was before. Remarkably, once I got my Toyota back, I had no more issues. My daughter hated that car because it was a target. Not only would she get pulled over, but she'd get searched every time. Once she got a new car, she's never been pulled over again. My mother noticed the same trend when she saved up enough to upgrade from her 80's crap car to a new SUV. Right now, hubs and I are investing and saving for retirement, so we drive crap cars to save money. We have money, but we 'look' poor. Poor = target. Young + male + sports car also = target. So if you're looking to avoid hassle, get a newer car that appears more sedate and keep it clean. (For some reason, cops don't seem to have a problem with black SUV's without tinted windows when driven by a woman. Guess they like soccer moms) Also, obey the law. (But if you're driving a 'beater' that won't be enough.) 9.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? Would someone driving a car that resembles a police vehicle get pulled over more or less? What's the most common color of vehicles that get pulled over? Can you follow a police car and not get pulled over? Ask New Question   Doreen Knight , Drove a lot of miles in my life Answered Oct 10, 2017 · Author has 620 answers and 632.6k answer views First of all, I’m going to warn you that I disagree with most of the other answers. I had a friend,Pat, who was involved in a bad motor accident. The other driver, who was at fault, said that he hadn’t seen her. Her car was dark grey (gray) the same colour (color) as the road. When I came to change my car I had a choice of two, a blue one or a fluorescent green one (same model, same year, same price). Remembering Pat, I chose the bright green one - no-one’s going to miss seeing a car like that even if he’s not wearing his glasses. It was bright ! I was always being pulled over by the police for spot-checks because I didn’t blend in. What sort of crazy hippy free-thinker would be driving a car like that. When my car finally died and I changed it for a plain white Ford, I didn’t get stopped at all. Blend-in, don’t get a conspicuous looking car. Also, I don’t know if this is true, but I heard that at one time British police used to play car snooker (British game played on a billiard table with coloured balls). You get one point for stopping a red car, then you go on to the colours, and score points according to the value of potting the snooker ball of that colour. Don’t get a red car you’ll get stopped twice as often, don’t get a black car it’s worth seven points. A good choice is white - it’s four points away for potting the cue ball. Finally, I’d like to ask the American Quorans a question. Can the American police stop you on a spot check, or do you have to have commited a traffic violation ? 5.9k Views · View Upvoters Quora User Answered Oct 11, 2017 Here in the Netherlands I don’t think the colour matters that much. The make and model together with your own appearance does though. A young guy driving a big fat Audi s6 from last year will be more likely to be stopped or checked than a young guy in an Toyota Yaris. Especially cars that have tinted windows (they’ll wonder what you’re hiding) or have obvious after-market (big spoilers, mufflers, lowered suspension) stuff on them tend to get checked out more frequently and possibly pulled over. *an addition: dutch Police also try to stay adware what kind of cars are popular amongst criminals, driving one of those might get you more attention from them. 1.2k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Adey Hill , I used to sell cars and have cleaned and detailed many of them Updated May 12, 2017 · Author has 1.9k answers and 4.9m answer views Whilst I am almost certain that someone somewhere will have compiled and extrapolated loads of data on which colour of car gets pulled over the most/least, I can say that they have wasted their time and money. Cars tend to have colour trends; a few years ago it was silver now it's white. If you currently drive a white car then statistically you will have more chance of being pulled over than if you drive a pink car. The simple facts are that cops don't pay much attention to the colour (other than making a mental note along with make model and registration mark) should it make off.) What we tend to look at is manner and style of driving, if the passengers or driver are acting suspiciously or the car sticks out like a sore thumb for the area it is in. 17.1k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Sean Naylor Quora User , Objective police supporter, hated by Pat Dernec Updated Sep 12, 2015 · Author has 453 answers and 163.4k answer views White, Silver, Tan, Beige, etc. Whatever colors draw your attention the least, will be the same for cops. They're human, so they're drawn to flashier cars and bold colors. And as Brian Jones said, it's your driving that will catch their attention the most. 13.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jim Thompson , ASE Certified auto mechanic for 25 years. Answered Apr 3, 2016 · Author has 184 answers and 126.1k answer views White is the least likely to be noticed. Most company cars are white and people who own white cars are more conservative in their driving, in my experience. Also, when I did get stopped the police were 90% more likely to just give me a verbal warning. I was once stopped doing 65 in a 30 and the cop let me go with a verbal warning. Also, do not drive a small Honda. I purchased one of them, Teal color, and got stopped more and got more tickets in 6 months than I had in the previous 10 years. I think the cops profile cars like that because they are more likely to be driven by young people than older, more cautious drivers. they also stopped me for very minor infractions, like not signalling before changing lanes.  The cops stopping me seemed to be surprised that an old fart like me was driving a car like that. Any shade of brown would be the next most inconspicuous color. I rarely got stopped in a brown company car I drove even though I exceeded the speed limit often. That is the car I was driving 65 in the 30 zone. It also helps to be honest when they stop you, especially for speeding. When the cops asked me if I knew how fast I was going, I would say: "Yes, I was going 70." [Or whatever speed I was driving at the time} They would usually do a double take because most people lie to them. They appreciate honesty. 3.8k Views · View Upvoters   Hasting Jarnos , Cop and Software Engineer Answered Dec 14, 2017 · Author has 268 answers and 144.6k answer views Honestly, that's a hard honestly, that's a hard one to answer. Because those kind of stats aren't tracked to be able to give the objective answer. Cops tend to pull people over for something they've done, or an issue with their vehicle. I could say that silver is the most non seen color, but then somebody could pull out some kind of stat that shows silver vehicles are pulled over at a high percentage. What gets pulled over most is what catches people's eye. So if it catches your eye, it most likely catches a cop's eye. 489 Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood   Uday Singh Answered Dec 15, 2017 · Author has 182 answers and 105.9k answer views Silver, probably because of how common it is! XD hehe. But in this day and age it is difficult to tell what color cars get least likely caught… It seems like the age of the car seems to grab the attention of the police. Old cars are targeted often because they are old, so there could be more things likely to be out of order than recent cars. I watched a documentary about the British police, how they stop cars. The documentary mentioned that the police stopped an old white Ford Transit tow truck, simply for the reason that it looked too “old”. It was an early 1990s Ford Transit tow truck… and the documentary was filmed in the 2010s… that Ford Transit could’ve been an antique no? XD Now why was it stopped? Because it didn’t have its “MOT” or in other parts of the world, known as technical control. That Ford Transit was old, therefore many things weren’t in order, like the tire grips were badly worn away, etc… 416 Views · Answer requested by Quora User Quora User , lived in London (1995-2002) Answered Dec 13, 2017 · Author has 1.3k answers and 2.1m answer views When I lived in the UK, there were persistent rumors that some police were engaged in a game of Motorway Snooker amongst themselves. For those unfamiliar with the game of snooker, it uses eight different-colored balls on a pool table. Each color is worth a different number of points: nothing for the white cue ball, 1 point for red, 2 for yellow, 3 for green, 4 for brown, 5 for blue, 6 for pink, and 7 for black. If engaged in a competition, officers could keep a running tally of points based on the colors of the cars that they stopped for traffic violations. To my knowledge, the allegations of Motorway Snooker were never proven. However, the BBC did issue some suggestions to motorists about their choice of car color. Motorway snooker: Pot luck for drivers? 2k Views   Brian Jones , 26 years law enforcement experience Answered Sep 10, 2015 · Author has 1.5k answers and 658.9k answer views The color of the car not speeding, running stop signs, or driving recklessly. It's the behavior of the driver, not the color of the car that catches my attention. 4.5k Views · View Upvoters   Shridhar Deshpande , I love cars and know a bit about them. Answered Sep 30, 2015 · Author has 104 answers and 165.5k answer views There's a colour like that. The name's Invisible. Cops don't give a damn about the car colour, they look for if it's being driven sanely or n not. But otherwise, I think that if you buy a car that blends in with other cars and the cops are bored and looking for random people to pull over, you'll less likely be pulled over. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Aug 1, 2016 According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics a car being driven by a white or Hispanic woman is least likely to be pulled over. Also according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics a black male is more likely to be pulled over than white or Hispanic males. Police were more likely to search males than females when pulled over for a traffic violation. The color of the car is less a consideration than the color of the person and the color of the car is less a consideration than the type of car. My sources: Bureau of Justice Statistics 1.6k Views · View Upvoters   Marc Whinery , Driving since I was, well, old enough to drive. Multiple countries, every state Answered Oct 10, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views Anything not unusual. If you are the only bright pink car on the road, you’ll get more attention, from everyone, including cops. If you are in red, and 10% or more of the cars are red, you’ll not stand out. The white/black/grey cars all blend in. But the radar gun doesn’t see color, so a boring color won’t save you. A bright car in a unique color may draw more attention, but there’s nothing “safe”. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Hussein Osman   Bridgett Barr , I have eyes :) Answered Sep 18, 2015 White, silver, & other colours that are popular and not really noticeable compared to other cars… but.. It really has little to do with the colour. It depends on what you're doing. For example, let's say there was a busy street full of 99% red cars. If you were in a red car & driving with your door open (or something else) the police would pull you over.. But your car blends in with the other cars so they may or may not notice, especially on a busy street. If you were a red car on a busy street full of, say, 99% black cars, you would probably have more of a chance of being noticed because you're standing out, but you would still be pulled over anyhow. 3.3k Views · View Upvoters   Paul Ragon , Still Attending from Dee - Mack High School (2019) Answered Dec 26, 2017 White, followed by gray/silver. If you are looking to avoid as many tickets as possible go for one of those options. The more “boring” the color the better, you want to blend in. This works the same for model of cars as well, a sporty coupe or sedan with be pulled over more than a van or SUV. Just don’t stand out, and an officer will overlook you more often than others. 234 Views   Edmond Gaudelli , former Technical Adviser at Paladin Communications (2002-2006) Answered Dec 12, 2017 · Author has 540 answers and 78.9k answer views A white colored car. In my experience, red colored cars get ticketed more and are involved in more accidents. 143 Views · View Upvoters   Dimitrij Fedorov Answered Dec 12, 2017 · Author has 712 answers and 183.2k answer views I have no idea, and I don’t even know if there is such a thing - any color that is not bright red, aggressive yellow or neon green? Thankfully, in the past 10 years I have only been pulled over once for jumping the red light nearby. My car was black and completely unremarkable in our area - an older variety of Ford Escort. I do have one car that is very pretty, juicy red, but because it’s a hybrid, I guess it’s not high on the officers’ priority list. 105 Views · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood   Steve Blumenkranz , studied at Stanford University Answered Dec 14, 2017 · Author has 5k answers and 3.1m answer views When I owned a silver car, I had the experience that other drivers did not see me a number of times. My hypothesis is that this would apply to police officers too. 74 Views · Answer requested by  K. Diane Greenwood Related Questions Policemen: When pulling a car over (e.g. for speeding) why do policemen touch the tail light/back of the car as they are walking up? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? If two cars are speeding at the same speed one right behind the other, which is more likely to get clocked and pulled over by the police? Why? Can a standard city police car (patrol car) pull you over on a highway for speeding? Is it true that if you drive a red car you most likely get pulled over? What will the police officer do if, when pulled over, I get out of my car without his permission? Do certain cars really get pulled over less often? What do passing drivers feel when they see a car pulled over by the police? What happens if I speed past a police car who has pulled someone over? Would you get pulled over just because a car looks like it can go fast? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the odds that you're going to get pulled over by the police every time you get in the car? What kind of cars get pulled over statistically? Would someone driving a car that resembles a police vehicle get pulled over more or less? What's the most common color of vehicles that get pulled over? Can you follow a police car and not get pulled over? Policemen: When pulling a car over (e.g. for speeding) why do policemen touch the tail light/back of the car as they are walking up? How common is it to get pulled over by police in the US? If two cars are speeding at the same speed one right behind the other, which is more likely to get clocked and pulled over by the police? Why? Can a standard city police car (patrol car) pull you over on a highway for speeding? Is it true that if you drive a red car you most likely get pulled over? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Interacting with Police  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement  Law  Cars and Automobiles What are the chances of being pulled over when going 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 mph over the speed limit? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 6 Answers   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Jan 8, 2013 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Probably very small, although the allowable margin will decrease as the speed limit decreases. You need to remember that many major investigations begin with a simple traffic stop, and any traffic violation, no matter how small, is enough to justify the stop. If the officer making the stop is looking for a reason, you gave him one. 12.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Which is worse, someone running over your legs going 5 mph or going 120 mph? Is 1 mph better or worse than 10 mph for going over a speed bump. Which speed is better for the car? Will law enforcement pull me over if I pass them on the highway going 3-4 mph over the speed limit? What are the most effective strategies to speed without getting pulled over? Ask New Question   George Erhard , Moto rider, geared up and using both tires... Answered Jan 29, 2013 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.7m answer views Within 5mph of the posted limit, you'll probably get pulled over for other reasons.  Expired tags.  Outstanding tickets ("Out here they got SCMODS.")  Nonfunctioning or broken lights.  Failure to signal.  Speeding in a construction zone.  Staying in the left lane where posted "keep to the right".  Bottomed-out suspension, obscured windows, excessive smog or noise, or other signs that the car is unsafe.  Etc etc.  Speed isn't the only reason for a traffic stop after all. One of the most trying traffic stops I've had to endure was because I'd wired the brake and taillight circuits wrong in my truck and the officer couldn't see the turn signal clearly. Once pulled over... well... he found lots of other things to 'investigate' because at the time I was very much the hippie. 5.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Anonymous Answered Oct 30, 2013 I've finally found answers to my own question.  For some reason I didn't think to check reddit. Why is it so socially acceptable to drive 5-10 mph over the speed limit? Police officers of Reddit, at what MPH over the speed limit do you typically decide to pull a driver over? Police officers of Reddit, how much speeding do you allow to happen, and how fast do you allow people to go? To the police officer who charged me for driving 3 miles over the speed limit... (surprisingly a helpful /r/AdviceAnimals topic) To summarize , it seems you can usually approach 10 mph without much worry (though you can still be ticketed between 5 and 10, it's pretty unlikely; above 10 and you're getting into likely territory -- also it should be noted that obviously these rules apply to speeds of 45 mph or higher, not something like 25 or 35 mph).  Up to 5 mph above the speed limit is a complete safe-area. 4.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Zak Ruffin , I own a car repair business Answered Jan 24, 2013 · Author has 130 answers and 164.3k answer views firstly, most speedometers over-read anyway, usually by 10%, manufacturers deliberately build this error in so that there can never be an argument from a driver that the speedo under-reading caused them to get a ticket. you can check this yourself with a gps speedo, you can download a free one for your smart phone, they are highly accurate. following that, in the uk at least, if you stick to less than 10% over the limit you'll usually be just fine. this assumes you don't get spotted by an officer who didnt get laid recently, in which case you'll be the one to get screwed. of course you could try the argument that as there is no victim there really is no crime, and therefore all the officer is doing is generating revenue for the government. but this takes a lot of guts to follow through. 3.8k Views   Marc Whinery , Driving since I was, well, old enough to drive. Multiple countries, every state Answered Mar 27, 2017 · Author has 6.4k answers and 4.2m answer views Usually, there’ll be a better “target”, so you’ll be safe. But if you are “interesting” to the police, any over will be sufficient for a pretext stop. 882 Views · Answer requested by  Charlie Park promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User , Police Officer Answered Jul 29, 2017 · Author has 1.6k answers and 189.9k answer views A traffic stop for 5 (or less) over is absolutely possible, but I've never actually been aware of it happening. So whatever the probability percentage is, it's going to be really low. Maybe in a 15 mph zone, but there aren't many of those. 261 Views Related Questions If you go at the same speed or even lower speed as the traffic but the traffic is exceeding the speed limit, can you still be pulled over? What is it like to be pulled over for speeding in excess of 100mph? Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" How common is it to get ticketed if you are going between 0 and 10 mph over the speed limit on a freeway? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Will you be sent a ticket if a traffic camera catches you slightly speeding (1 or 2 mph)? If not, how much over can you go? Is it true that cops won't pull you over for speeding unless you are going 10 mph over the speed limit or more? Have you ever been pulled over/pulled someone over specifically for going exactly the speed limit (ex. 55 in a 55)? What would happen if you got pulled over for speeding at 200+ MPH? You're driving 15 mph over the speed limit, when suddenly you see a cop car in the median ahead. To avoid getting pulled over, should you quic... Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How much over the speed limit do most officers let you go before pulling you over? Which is worse, someone running over your legs going 5 mph or going 120 mph? Is 1 mph better or worse than 10 mph for going over a speed bump. Which speed is better for the car? Will law enforcement pull me over if I pass them on the highway going 3-4 mph over the speed limit? What are the most effective strategies to speed without getting pulled over? If you go at the same speed or even lower speed as the traffic but the traffic is exceeding the speed limit, can you still be pulled over? What is it like to be pulled over for speeding in excess of 100mph? Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" How common is it to get ticketed if you are going between 0 and 10 mph over the speed limit on a freeway? Why are cars made to go significantly faster than the highest national speed limit? Why do they make your average Toyota Corolla top 140mph? W... Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Driving Fast  Driving Tips  Being Arrested or Detained by the Police  Police Procedures  Interacting with Police  Driving  Police and Law Enforcement Are police more likely to pull you over if you're in the left lane on a highway? Update Cancel ad by Truthfinder Did you know your driving history is public? Truthfinder.com exposes driving histories of Americans. Enter your name to see what is posted. Read More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 8 Answers   Justin Freeman , Former Patrol Officer Answered Apr 27, 2012 · Author has 410 answers and 7.6m answer views There really isn't any one metric regarding stop probabilities on the highway, whether in general or for a given lane. One thing that will play into this question may be whether the officer is mobile or not. If an officer is stationary and running radar or lidar, there will be more of an objective observation of raw speed. He or she will generally be training their device on each respective car in turn - across all lanes. Once a vehicle registers a reading which eclipses the officer's 'magic number' (which I discussed here and here ), it will likely trigger a traffic stop no matter which lane it's in. While someone who is obviously driving erratically will be noticed, patterns will matter less here than raw numbers. If the officer is mobile, radar may or may not be involved - mobile radar exists, but it had pretty spotty deployment on my department, and I don't know how widespread it is in general. If an officer's just patrolling, patterns will matter more - but again, it matters less about which lane you're in and more about what you look like in relation to the normal flow of traffic. As I discussed here , if you make yourself obvious in traffic, you're going to get keyed in on pretty quickly. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Marc Bodnick Related Questions More Answers Below Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" On head-on crashes on highways with a barricade in the center more likely on the right lane than left lane? Are semi trucks ever allowed to use the left lane on a highway that's three or more lanes? Which lane is the fastest on a highway? Are police more or less likely to pull over speeding taxis? Ask New Question   Tim Dees , Retired cop and criminal justice professor, Reno Police Department, Reno Municipal Court, and Pyramid Lake ... Answered Sep 14, 2013 · Author has 5.5k answers and 39.8m answer views Most states require that slower-moving traffic keep to the right. If you loiter in the left lane and are not passing slower traffic to the right, you could be stopped for not keeping to the right. If you remain in the left lane and are consistently passing cars on the right that are moving at the speed limit, you can be stopped for speeding. Beyond that, there's no greater risk of being stopped while traveling in the left or any other lane. Traffic enforcement officers on the highway look for speeders, people changing lanes rapidly, carelessly, without signalling, or while cutting off other cars. They look for lane straddling and equipment violations. In all these things, which lane the violator is in has almost nothing to do with whether the violator will be stopped. The best way to avoid being stopped is to drive at or under the speed limit, keep your car properly registered and in good repair, and obey all traffic laws. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Denventrieal DeSean Lockett promoted  by Hotjar See how your visitors are really using your website. Hotjar is a quick and easy way to truly understand your website visitors. Try it for Free! Learn More at hotjar.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User , Former Deputy Sheriff, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office Answered Apr 25, 2012 · Author has 195 answers and 473.6k answer views I assume you're asking about while traveling down a major freeway. Traditionally, the number 1 lane (the far left lane) is for the faster moving traffic, so the odds are if you're following the flow of traffic, you're going faster in the left lane than others, so your odds increase. However, if traffic is going slower in the middle or right lanes, then if you're going faster, you're making more lane changes to get past people and will stand out, increasing your visibility and chances of getting stopped. As a former cop (and I assume others will back me up on this), it's more than just your speed.  Your driving - are you tailgating, making unsafe changes, multiple changes, varying your speed, racing up to the next car and hitting the brakes, etc. - is what gives the big picture of whether or not you should be stopped.  That's not to say that you can't and won't be stopped for just speed alone. And to wind my way back to your original question - I personally don't think which lane you are in matters.  At least it didn't for me. 3.1k Views · View Upvoters   George Erhard , Gets tickets for exuberance in traffic Answered Jan 29, 2013 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.7m answer views Cars (and bikes!) get pulled over because they are Noticed.  It's easy to get Noticed.  Frequent lane changes, tailgating, sudden acceleration or braking, passing on the right, anything that breaks you out of the herd... take your pick.  As for the logic of why Person A is pulled over as opposed to Persons B-Z all doing the same (excessive) speed?  One patrolman's answer has always stuck with me. "Ever gone fishing?" 825 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder This site reveals driving history. Have you searched your name? Did you know a new site posts your driving history online for all to see? Search your name for results. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Peter Campbell , Most of my living relatives are in law enforcement. Answered Sep 7, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 879.6k answer views Well, I have to say that the only two times I ever got pulled over was because I was driving along in the left lane completely oblivious to the world. The first time I got a ticket and the second time was hilarious. The second time it was a young State Trooper, really nice fellow, who walks up the car and breaks out in gales of laughter and starts saying “Oh my God! I’ve pulled over Santa Clause.” So, having a snow white beard and being fat, pretty obvious even sitting down and having Canadian plates was all it took. So, the young fellow takes my papers back to his car, laughing all the time and then comes back and explains to me that I probably was speeding a bit because my speedometer was reading kilometers and its miles in the US and I was probably a bit off on my math. Please note, I did not suggest that condition, he brought it up all on his own. My guess is that the young lad wanted to cut me some slack and he had a dash video and maybe a body video to worry about and this was his way. He did warn me about a serious wind storm up ahead and was actually a very pleasant young man. Did it work? Yep. I never loiter in the left lane any more because I figure that is a true “one off” and you don’t get any more after that. Oh, I should mention that my speedometer was one of the electronic ones that could be set to kilometers or miles and said so in big green letters. It was on miles. Like I said, nice kid. 298 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Drives a lot Answered May 15, 2012 · Author has 1.7k answers and 2.1m answer views In Okla. a law was passed that says you can get ticketed for continually driving in the left lane slowing down traffic. Once you pass you're supposed to get in the right lane. Some people are still ignorant of the law, driving their Buick at 55, with their blinker continuously going, while gripping the steering wheel. 816 Views · View Upvoters   Ken Streiff , frequent writer on Quora, lots of points to give away!!! Answered May 15, 2014 · Author has 1.7k answers and 2.2m answer views Depends on which country you are in, for one thing.  And the laws of the jurisdiction, and the thing which you are doing in that lane.  Generally, if you are driving at or near the posted speed, in the general flow of traffic, not tailgating, or impeding the progress of traffic, not traveling in the wrong direction, not in a restricted bus-only or HOV-only lane, and in a vehicle fit-for-purpose, you are neither more nor less likely to be pulled over based solely on the lane in which you happen to be operating momentarily.  In the United States, the left lane is largely reserved for overtaking, and in some states this is the law, to stay right unless you are passing, signage may indicate "Slower traffic keep right".    And since you are passing while in the left lane, this may give a patrolman more reason to scrutinize whether you are in fact speeding.  So, all in all, yes, simply because there are more reasons for you to be stopped than in the right lane, but not simply because of the lane, but because of your actions. 786 Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered May 15, 2012 Some states require slower moving traffic to stay in the left lane thereby allowing the right lane to be used for passing.  Whenever you move to the right lane you draw attention to yourself and if you are passing other vehicles it will look as if you are speeding.  This alone will not get you stopped but it will draw an Officer's attention which may result in a traffic stop if he suspects you are speeding or if he witnesses another moving or equipment violation.  They point to remember is that Officers are looking for violations.  If you are not violating the law you have nothing to worry about. 660 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions On the highway do cops pull people over for speeding more during the day or at night? Cop asked me to pull over but left when I actually pulled over. What does this mean? Should I pull over when an ambulance is coming in the other lane? Can you pull over to the shoulder to await police while on a 3-lane highway when the damage is minimal to both vehicles? If a police car was tailgating (or behind) you on a single-lane highway without its lights on, should you pull over to the shoulder to allow p... Are you more likely to be pulled over when driving a ex-police car? If an officer is in front of you on the highway, can they pull you over? How deadly are lane-change/side-swipe crashes on highways? Can a police officer pull you over because you left a bar? What can I say to police when I get pulled over? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Why do the police ask, "Do you know why I pulled you over?" On head-on crashes on highways with a barricade in the center more likely on the right lane than left lane? Are semi trucks ever allowed to use the left lane on a highway that's three or more lanes? Which lane is the fastest on a highway? Are police more or less likely to pull over speeding taxis? On the highway do cops pull people over for speeding more during the day or at night? Cop asked me to pull over but left when I actually pulled over. What does this mean? Should I pull over when an ambulance is coming in the other lane? Can you pull over to the shoulder to await police while on a 3-lane highway when the damage is minimal to both vehicles? If a police car was tailgating (or behind) you on a single-lane highway without its lights on, should you pull over to the shoulder to allow p... Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact           BJS: Bureau of Justice Statistics          Home | About Us | Contact Us | Help | A-Z Topic List           All Information Types  Publications & Products  Data Collections & Surveys  Topics  Data Analysis Tools  FAQs  Solicitations                            Print  Text Size: [ - ] [ + ]   Home  Topics          Corrections      Capital Punishment        Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)        Expenditures/Employment        Local jail inmates and jail facilities        Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))        Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)        Recidivism        Special populations        State and federal prisoners and prison facilities        Total correctional population          Federal      Corrections        Courts        Law Enforcement        Prosecution            Courts      Civil Rights        Civil cases        Criminal Cases        Indigent Defense Systems        Prosecutors Offices        State Court Caseload Statistics        State Court Organization        Tribal courts          Victims      Crime characteristics and trends        Reporting crimes to police        Research and Development        Special topics        The Crime event        Victim Service Providers        Victim characteristics        Victims and offenders            Crime Type      Cybercrime        Drugs and crime        Gangs        Hate Crime        Identity Theft        Location        Property Crime        Violent Crime        Weapon Use          Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program      National Criminal History Improvement Program        State Justice Statistics Program        The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007            Law Enforcement      Arrest-Related Deaths        Campus Law Enforcement        Community Policing        Federal Law Enforcement        Forensic Investigation        Law Enforcement Training Academies        Local Police        Police-Public Contacts        Sheriffs' Offices        Special Topics        Tribal Law Enforcement        Use of Force          Employment and Expenditure        Indian Country Justice Statistics           Publications & Products   Overview  Data and Product Finder  Alphabetical Index  Publications Prior to 1995  Search  View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View By Product Type   Publications  Data Tables  Press Releases  Working Papers  Research Papers   Forthcoming Publications & Products  View All   Errata   Data Collections   View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View All   Funding   Solicitations  BJS Visiting Fellows  Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program  Graduate Research Fellowship Program  Faculty Research Fellowship Program    Data Analysis Tools   View Dynamic Tools     Arrest Data Analysis Tool Home Page (Updated with 2013 and 2014 data)    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Parole    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Prisoners    Corrections Statistical Analysis Tool (CSAT) - Probation    Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Statistics Data Tool    Federal Criminal Case Processing Statistics (FCCPS)    NCVS Victimization Analysis Tool (NVAT)    National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) API    Prisoner Recidivism Analysis Tool - 1994 Home Page    Prisoner Recidivism Analysis Tool - 2005 Home Page    View By Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims   View All   Key Statistics   View By Primary Topic   Corrections  Courts  Crime Type  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program  Employment and Expenditure  Federal  Indian Country Justice Statistics  Law Enforcement  Victims    View All    About Us   Research   Research and Development Papers  Working Papers  Other BJS-funded research                        Corrections    Total correctional population   Local jail inmates and jail facilities   State and federal prisoners and prison facilities   Special populations   Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)   Expenditures/Employment   Recidivism   Capital Punishment   Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))   Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)    Courts    State Court Organization   State Court Caseload Statistics   Prosecutors Offices   Indigent Defense Systems   Tribal courts   Criminal Cases   Civil cases   Civil Rights    Crime Type    Violent Crime   Property Crime   Drugs and crime   Gangs   Hate Crime   Cybercrime   Identity Theft   Weapon Use   Location    Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program    National Criminal History Improvement Program   State Justice Statistics Program   The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007    Employment and Expenditure     Federal    Law Enforcement   Prosecution   Courts   Corrections    Indian Country Justice Statistics     Law Enforcement    Local Police   Sheriffs' Offices   Federal Law Enforcement   Tribal Law Enforcement   Campus Law Enforcement   Law Enforcement Training Academies   Forensic Investigation   Police-Public Contacts   Use of Force   Arrest-Related Deaths   Community Policing   Special Topics    Victims    Research and Development   Victim characteristics   Crime characteristics and trends   Victims and offenders   The Crime event   Reporting crimes to police   Special topics   Victim Service Providers       Corrections  Total correctional population  Local jail inmates and jail facilities  State and federal prisoners and prison facilities  Special populations  Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)  Expenditures/Employment  Recidivism  Capital Punishment  Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))  Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)  Courts   State Court Organization  State Court Caseload Statistics  Prosecutors Offices  Indigent Defense Systems  Tribal courts  Criminal Cases  Civil cases  Civil Rights  Crime Type   Violent Crime  Property Crime  Drugs and crime  Gangs  Hate Crime  Cybercrime  Identity Theft  Weapon Use  Location  Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program   National Criminal History Improvement Program  State Justice Statistics Program  The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007  Employment and Expenditure   Federal  Law Enforcement  Prosecution  Courts  Corrections  Indian Country Justice Statistics   Law Enforcement  Local Police  Sheriffs' Offices  Federal Law Enforcement  Tribal Law Enforcement  Campus Law Enforcement  Law Enforcement Training Academies  Forensic Investigation  Police-Public Contacts  Use of Force  Arrest-Related Deaths  Community Policing  Special Topics  Victims   Research and Development  Victim characteristics  Crime characteristics and trends  Victims and offenders  The Crime event  Reporting crimes to police  Special topics  Victim Service Providers       Corrections | Total correctional population      Corrections | Local jail inmates and jail facilities     Jail inmate characteristics  Local jail facility characteristics     Corrections | State and federal prisoners and prison facilities     Prison population counts  Prison inmate characteristics  State and federal prison facility characteristics  Special topics     Corrections | Special populations     Federal Bureau of Prisons  Jails in Indian Country  Military  Territories  Immigration and Customs Enforcement  Juveniles     Corrections | Community Corrections (Probation and Parole)     Probation   Probation population counts   Parole   Parole population counts  Parole agencies      Corrections | Expenditures/Employment     Justice Expenditures and Employment data  Prison Expenditures     Corrections | Recidivism      Corrections | Capital Punishment     Number under sentence of death  Executions     Corrections | Mortality in Correctional Institutions (MCI) (Formerly Deaths in Custody Reporting Program (DCRP))     Local Jails  State Prisons  Federal Prisons     Corrections | Prison Rape Elimination Act (Sexual Victimization in Correctional Facilities)      Courts | State Court Organization      Courts | State Court Caseload Statistics      Courts | Prosecutors Offices      Courts | Indigent Defense Systems      Courts | Tribal courts      Courts | Criminal Cases     Felony defendants  Felony Sentences  Criminal appeals  Domestic violence cases  Juvenile defendants     Courts | Civil cases     Tort, contract and real property trials   Medical malpractice trials   Punitive damages in civil trials    Civil Appeals     Courts | Civil Rights      Crime Type  | Violent Crime     Homicide  Rape and Sexual Assault  Robbery  Assault  Stalking/intimidation     Crime Type  | Property Crime     Burglary  Larceny/theft  Motor vehicle theft  Cybercrime - Electronic crime  Identity theft     Crime Type  | Drugs and crime     Drug use and crime     Crime Type  | Gangs      Crime Type  | Hate Crime      Crime Type  | Cybercrime      Crime Type  | Identity Theft      Crime Type  | Weapon Use      Crime Type  | Location     Schools  Workplace     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | National Criminal History Improvement Program     State profiles  Special projects/collections     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | State Justice Statistics Program     State profiles     Criminal Justice Data Improvement Program | The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007     State profiles     Federal | Law Enforcement      Federal | Prosecution      Federal | Courts      Federal | Corrections      Law Enforcement | Local Police      Law Enforcement | Sheriffs' Offices      Law Enforcement | Federal Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Tribal Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Campus Law Enforcement      Law Enforcement | Law Enforcement Training Academies      Law Enforcement | Forensic Investigation      Law Enforcement | Police-Public Contacts     Traffic Stops     Law Enforcement | Use of Force      Law Enforcement | Arrest-Related Deaths      Law Enforcement | Community Policing      Law Enforcement | Special Topics     Aviation Units     Victims | Research and Development     NCVS Redesign: Subnational  NCVS Redesign: Survey Instrument Redesign  Measuring Rape and Sexual Assault     Victims | Victim characteristics     Age  Race/ethnicity  Sex  Disabilities     Victims | Crime characteristics and trends     Violent crime  Property crime     Victims | Victims and offenders     Stranger and non-stranger crime  Offenders demographics     Victims | The Crime event      Victims | Reporting crimes to police      Victims | Special topics     Identity theft  Stalking  School crime     Victims | Victim Service Providers              Latest Releases     Requests for Police Assistance, 2011  Police Behavior during Traffic and Street Stops, 2011  Requests for Police Assistance, 2011  Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008  Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008      MORE LATEST RELEASES       FAQs     What percentage of persons in a motor vehicle or public place were stopped by police and searched or frisked?  What are the characteristics of persons who come into contact with the police for different reasons?      MORE FAQs           Home | Law Enforcement | Police-Public Contacts | Traffic Stops      This site requires a Javascript-enabled browser, click here for additional information.         Traffic Stops     On This Page         About this Topic  Data Collections & Surveys  Publications & Products               About this Topic       The most common reason for contact with the police is being a driver in a traffic stop. In 2011, an estimated 42% of face-to-face contacts that U.S. residents had with police occurred for this reason. About half of all traffic stops that year resulted in a traffic ticket. Approximately 3% of all stopped drivers were searched by police during a traffic stop.  These findings are based on the Police-Public Contact Survey (PPCS), a BJS survey that interviews U.S. residents about their contacts with police during the previous 12 months. Persons who reported more than one instance of face-to-face contact during the year are asked to describe the most recent occurrence. The PPCS has been conducted about every three years since 1996.  Summary findings   An estimated 26.4 million persons age 16 or older indicated that their most recent contact with the police in 2011 was as a driver pulled over in a traffic stop. These drivers represented 12% of the nation's 212 million drivers.  A greater percentage of male drivers (12%) than female drivers (8%) were stopped by police during 2011.  A higher percentage of black drivers (13%) than white (10%) and Hispanic (10%) drivers were stopped by police during 2011.  Stopped drivers reported speeding as the most common reason for being pulled over in 2011.  Approximately 80% of drivers pulled over by police in 2011 felt they had been stopped for a legitimate reason. In 2011, about 68% of black drivers believed police had a legitimate reason for stopping them compared to 84% of white and 74% of Hispanic drivers.  In 2011, about 3% of traffic stops led to a search of the driver, the vehicle, or both. Police were more likely to search male drivers (4%) than female drivers (2%).  A lower percentage of white drivers stopped by police in 2011 were searched (2%) than black (6%) or Hispanic (7%) drivers.   Back to Top      Data Collections & Surveys         Police-Public Contact Survey (PPCS)     State Police Traffic Stop Data Collection Procedures     Back to Top     Publications & Products            Requests for Police Assistance, 2011 Examines the characteristics and experiences of persons age 16 or older who contacted police to request assistance in 2011.       Press Release | PDF (952K) | ASCII file (23K) | Comma-delimited format (CSV) (Zip format 33K)      Police Behavior during Traffic and Street Stops, 2011 Examines the characteristics and experiences of persons age 16 or older who were stopped by police during traffic and street stops, and their perceptions of police behavior and response during these encounters.       Press Release | PDF (1.8M) | ASCII file (52K) | Comma-delimited format (CSV) (Zip format 64K)      Requests for Police Assistance, 2011 STUDY FINDS SOME RACIAL DIFFERENCES IN PERCEPTIONS OF POLICE BEHAVIOR DURING CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC       Press Release       Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008 Presents findings from a nationally representative survey of nearly 60,000 residents age 16 or older about their contact with police during the 12 months prior to the interview.       Press Release | PDF (932K) | ASCII file (48K) | Spreadsheet (Zip format 51K) | Codebooks and Datasets   Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Contacts between Police and the Public, 2008 CONTACTS BETWEEN POLICE AND THE PUBLIC DECLINED FROM 2002 TO 2008       Press Release   Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Average base starting salary for entry-level officers in local police departments, 2000 and 2003 Figure 7 from Local Police Departments, 2003       Download CSV file (Data Table 1 KB)      Local Police Departments, 2003 Full-time employment by local police departments, 1987-2003 Local Police Departments, 2003 Full-time employment by local police departments, 1987-2003       Spreadsheet (1K)      Contacts between Police and the Public, 2005 "Police stop white, black and Hispanic drivers at similar rates according to Department of Justice report"       Press Release | More information about this release       Contacts between Police and the Public, 2005 Presents data over a 12-month period on the nature and characteristics of face-to-face contacts between residents of the U.S. and the police. The report also provides demographic and other characteristics of residents involved in traffic stops and use of force incidents.       Press Release | PDF (305K) | ASCII file (32K) | Spreadsheet (Zip format 21K)  Part of the Contacts between Police and the Public Series      Citizen Complaints about Police Use of Force "Citizens complained more than 26,000 times in 2002 about excessive police force - Evidence in about 8% of complaints justified disciplinary action"       Press Release | More information about this release          MORE PUBLICATIONS & PRODUCTS     Back to Top               Bureau of Justice Statistics  About Us  BJS Data Protection Guidelines  BJS Data Quality Guidelines  BJS Statistical Principles and Practices  Jobs  Legal Policies and Disclaimers  OJP Freedom of Information Act  Privacy Policy  Scientific Integrity Statement    Web Site  A-Z Topical Index  Announcement Archive  Data and Product Finder  Department of Justice  FAQ  Help  Related Links  Site Map  Terms and Definitions    Partners  Crime SOLUTIONS.gov  Federal Bureau of Investigation  Federal Justice Statistics Resource Center  National Archive of Criminal Justice Data (NACJD)      Stay Connected  BJS RSS Feed  Contact Us  Subscribe to "JUSTSTATS"        Page last revised on 04/07/2018                                              Home     Forums     Search Forums  Recent Posts                 Your name or email address:     Password:    Forgot your password?       Stay logged in                                                                    Search titles only     Posted by Member:    Separate names with a comma.     Newer Than:       Search this thread only  Search this forum only   Display results as threads           More...      Useful Searches     Recent Posts                                Menu         Forums     Forums  Quick Links    Search Forums  Recent Posts          Menu          Log in      Sign up                            AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >             Odds of getting pulled over  Discussion in ' Off Topic ' started by FP , Dec 1, 2008 .        Page 1 of 3   1  2  3  Next >                    FP  Diamond Member       Joined:  Feb 24, 2005    Messages:  4,571    Likes Received:  0          1. You are driving a 10 year old SUV that is in OK shape with tags from CA.  2. You average 5 MPH over the speed limit and never drive erratically.  3. You drive for 10 hours and sleep for 8 hours until your destination. So you are driving during the day and night during the trip.  I would guess 25%. Purely based on the fact that most of the country would love to pull over a fruity CA car.         #1   FP ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Jschmuck2  Diamond Member       Joined:  Jul 13, 2005    Messages:  5,624    Likes Received:  1          Renew your license before you go.       #2   Jschmuck2 ,   Dec 1, 2008                      QurazyQuisp  Platinum Member       Joined:  Feb 5, 2003    Messages:  2,555    Likes Received:  0          I would say 1%. Except if you're driving through Ohio or Virginia.       #3   QurazyQuisp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Eli  Super Moderator<br>Elite Member   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 9, 1999    Messages:  50,430    Likes Received:  5          I'd say 2%.  I've driven over 100,000 miles in the last year while on the job, and was never pulled over once. Of course, I was only going between Oregon and California, but lol.       #4   Eli ,   Dec 1, 2008                       glenn1  Elite Member       Joined:  Sep 6, 2000    Messages:  22,412    Likes Received:  421          Agreed, presuming he's using major interstates where the main police presence is state troopers.  If he's using state highways and such, then he'll run into a lot more small town cops, then 25% is probably about right.        #5   glenn1 ,   Dec 1, 2008                      EagleKeeper  Discussion Club Moderator<br>Elite Member   Staff Member      Joined:  Oct 30, 2000    Messages:  42,600    Likes Received:  1          6 trips coast to coast over the past 5 years in sedan -3 in SUV  Stayed no more than 7-8 mph over limit.  Never even a blue light - Tags were not Ca       #6   EagleKeeper ,   Dec 1, 2008                       GagHalfrunt  Lifer       Joined:  Apr 19, 2001    Messages:  24,309    Likes Received:  1,500          1-3%. Unless you were unlucky enough to roll through a truly dishonest speed trap like one of the towns that gets their entire budget by such things you'd have to be VERY unlucky to be stopped. Cops don't notice 5 over on its own, it takes something else to get their attention.       #7   GagHalfrunt ,   Dec 1, 2008                       vi edit  Elite Member <br> Super Moderator   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 28, 1999    Messages:  58,519    Likes Received:  1,623          5% over on major interstates?  I'd say it's 1 in 1000(out of ass statistic) chance of getting pulled over.  Make sure all lights function properly, wear your seatbelt, and do the posted speed limits if passing through podunk towns for a bite to eat or refill.       #8   vi edit ,   Dec 1, 2008                       vi edit  Elite Member <br> Super Moderator   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 28, 1999    Messages:  58,519    Likes Received:  1,623          I'd also make sure any bumper stickers that say something to the effect of "Vote Yes for Medical Marijuana" or "Cops are dumb" are removed or covered up.       #9   vi edit ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Queasy  Moderator<br>Console Gaming       Joined:  Aug 24, 2001    Messages:  31,796    Likes Received:  0          Yeah, as long as you are not driving more than 5mph over the speed limit, your car is running fine, you aren't driving erratically, and you aren't doing blow while drinking beer with a 12 year old male prostitute...you should be fine.       #10   Queasy ,   Dec 1, 2008                      DayLaPaul  Platinum Member       Joined:  Apr 6, 2001    Messages:  2,072    Likes Received:  0          What ethnicity are you?       #11   DayLaPaul ,   Dec 1, 2008                      arrfep  Platinum Member       Joined:  Sep 7, 2006    Messages:  2,312    Likes Received:  2          8000 miles over two multi-state road trips.  IL-MO-KS-OK-TX-NM-AZ-CO-UT-WY-SD-MN-IL in 10 year old Mitsubishi Mirage 75% county roads, 25% Interstate.  IL-IN-OH-PA-VA-NC-TN-KY-IN-IL in a 13-year-old Saturn Station wagon.  50/50 backroads to Interstate. Never pulled over, no tickets, averaging 10% over on almost any road type.  Just make sure that you drive sensibly, and are never the fastest guy on the road.       #12   arrfep ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Farang  Lifer       Joined:  Jul 7, 2003    Messages:  10,922    Likes Received:  1          I haven't been pulled over for around 20,000 miles so I'd say 0.1%. I usually go 10 over and have done over 100 hours of long distance driving (300+ miles) and countless miles on state highways during that time.       #13   Farang ,   Dec 1, 2008                       zzuupp  Lifer       Joined:  Jul 6, 2008    Messages:  12,889    Likes Received:  1,330          On the interstates, more like 0%.       #14   zzuupp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      BlackTigers  Diamond Member       Joined:  Jan 15, 2006    Messages:  4,493    Likes Received:  1             Originally posted by: arrfep Just make sure that you drive sensibly, and are never the fastest guy on the road. Click to expand...   I think this is more important than anything.  Example: Friday I was cruising in the middle lane, with moderate traffic.  We were doing about 73 in a 55, and I  passed four speed traps.  Two staties and two locals.  Neither of which pulled out, because traffic was moving that fast.  But I was in the car with a friend who was pulled over for doing 62 on that very same stretch of road.  Only because we were the only car on the road - and thus the fastest.  =/         #15   BlackTigers ,   Dec 1, 2008                      BoomerD  Lifer       Joined:  Feb 26, 2006    Messages:  49,975    Likes Received:  1,123          We drove from Kahleeforneeya to Wisconsin, then the long way back (through Washington State) (6200 miles)  and the ONLY time we got pulled over was in outside a small town in Iowa. The Expedition was brand new and we didn't have ANY plates on the truck yet. Only took a few minutes to prove to the IHP that we wern't car thieves and that the vehicle was legal... and we were off again.  I really don't think Kahleeforneeya plates should be an issue anywhere unless the cop is just a prick with ears and a badge...and is looking for SOMETHING to fill his quota...        #16   BoomerD ,   Dec 1, 2008                      rezinn  Platinum Member       Joined:  Mar 30, 2004    Messages:  2,421    Likes Received:  0          I'd say zero. You're not special just because you have california plates. Just don't go a lot faster than everyone else and you won't get pulled over.       #17   rezinn ,   Dec 1, 2008                      nerp  Diamond Member       Joined:  Dec 31, 2005    Messages:  9,794    Likes Received:  67          I drove cross country and back in the summer of 2004 and didn't get stopped once. We hit 80-90mph on the 70mph limit freeways in the midwest. Passed cops on the highway. No problems. As long as you're not driving like a maniac and passing other cars liek crazy, you're good.       #18   nerp ,   Dec 1, 2008                      thescreensavers  Diamond Member       Joined:  Aug 3, 2005    Messages:  9,928    Likes Received:  1          less then 1% of speeding tickets are below 10 mph       #19   thescreensavers ,   Dec 1, 2008                      Capt Caveman  Lifer       Joined:  Jan 30, 2005    Messages:  34,278    Likes Received:  466          1%   I've driven back and forth cross country with MA and CA plates.  I avg'd probably 20 over and never got pulled over.       #20   Capt Caveman ,   Dec 1, 2008                      KillerCharlie  Diamond Member       Joined:  Aug 21, 2005    Messages:  3,595    Likes Received:  18          I've made an 1800 mile trip four times in the last five years and never got pulled over. I averaged about 10 mph over - I usually went the same speed as everyone else or a little faster, but not by much. If you're going 5 mph over you won't get pulled over.       #21   KillerCharlie ,   Dec 1, 2008                      PrinceofWands  Lifer       Joined:  May 16, 2000    Messages:  13,529    Likes Received:  0          I've driven coast to coast 3 times, never been stopped. I drive basically the way you describe (don't speed, don't drive erratic or aggressive, etc).       #22   PrinceofWands ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Elstupido  Senior member       Joined:  Jan 28, 2008    Messages:  643    Likes Received:  0          I always go about 3mph under the speed limit  and I never..... ever remove the tags from my bedding and pillows  Never had a ticket       #23   Elstupido ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Eli  Super Moderator<br>Elite Member   Super Moderator      Joined:  Oct 9, 1999    Messages:  50,430    Likes Received:  5             Originally posted by: Elstupido I always go about 3mph under the speed limit  and I never..... ever remove the tags from my bedding and pillows  Never had a ticket Click to expand...   3mph under the limit?  Paranoid much? lol       #24   Eli ,   Dec 2, 2008                      Bill Brasky  Diamond Member       Joined:  May 18, 2006    Messages:  4,346    Likes Received:  0             Originally posted by: DayLaPaul What ethnicity are you? Click to expand...   Sadly, this is a relevant question.       #25   Bill Brasky ,   Dec 2, 2008              (You must log in or sign up to post here.)   Show Ignored Content   Page 1 of 3    1  2  3  Next >               Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in                      Sign up now!      New Posts        Laura Ingraham losing advertisers after knocking David Hogg    Latest: bshole, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:02 PM    Politics and News          Auto accident, who is at fault    Latest: rh71, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:01 PM    Off Topic          Generational Tensions Within the New York Times    Latest: Hayabusa Rider, Apr 10, 2018 at 2:01 PM    Politics and News          Well who knew....U.S. budget deficit to balloon on Republican tax cuts: CBO    Latest: glenn1, Apr 10, 2018 at 1:59 PM    Politics and News          Ethereum GPU mining?    Latest: thilanliyan, Apr 10, 2018 at 1:58 PM    Video Cards and Graphics                AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >               Toggle Width     Style  Anandtech default style    Home  Contact Us  Help  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy   Top                   Copyright © 2016 Purch Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved Theme designed by Audentio Design .                             AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals    Home     Forums  >    Social  >    Off Topic  >           Skip to content  esurance on Tips & hacks for smarter living Menu  Police Reveal 4 Common Ways to Get Pulled Over By Alex Glenn    2.5k SHARES  VIEWS Tweet Share Reddit Pin Mail Google+ Print Whats App Tumblr LinkedIn Pocket Delicious Digg Subscribe Subscribe to our blog     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human: We’ve all seen it — someone changing lanes without signaling. Or a person driving while texting. And, if we’re honest, maybe we’ve even been that person. Nobody’s perfect. But when you’re trying to avoid being pulled over (which most of us are), it helps to know more about those bad driving habits we’ve all been (admittedly) guilty of at some point. Edmunds.com polled 3 police agencies to get an idea of the most common driving no-no’s that cops encounter . So, in the ongoing interest of helping us all become model motorists, here’s what Johnny Law had to say: Speeding (pulled over because you can’t drive 55 … in a 35 mph zone) In the Edmunds survey, every cop surveyed listed stopping speeding drivers as a main priority. So why do police officers key in on speeders? Well, issuing speeding tickets has a huge impact on safety. For every 100 extra speeding citations given in a month, there are 14.3 fewer crashes and 5.6 fewer injuries. Point is, if your need for speed gets the better of you, be prepared to put your money where your lead foot is — a whopping 34 million speeding tickets are handed out each year in the U.S. Distracted driving (pulled over because you’re texting, emailing, eating, and driving) The police officers surveyed say their main reasons for giving distracted-driving tickets include illegal texting and driving or other dangerous cell phone use. And with good reason, too. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, a stunning 40 percent of U.S. teens admit to having been in a car while the driver used a cell phone in an endangering way. We don’t know about you, but it seems this phenomenon can’t get enough police intervention. Equipment violations (pulled over because those windows are just a bit too dark) Equipment offenses are easy bait for tickets because they’re so simple to spot. A police officer doesn’t have to make any judgments about the situation. Rather, he or she can simply see that something isn’t up to code and make a move. According to the cops surveyed, the most glaring violation (pun intended) was illegal window tints. Following that were burned-out lights, broken windshields, and expired license plate tags. Tailgating and improper lane changes (pulled over because you’re bound to cause an accident) These 2 violations ranked as equally important on the Edmunds study. Both are reckless maneuvers that cops said they monitor closely. One police officer even qualified exactly what he thinks is considered a dangerous lane change: cutting someone off or moving without looking. Using the left lane for cruising instead of passing, driving too slowly, and squealing your tires are also high on the list. Use common sense When reviewing these offenses, it’s not exactly a surprise that they attract attention. True, you can’t control what other people will do on the road. But you can control yourself. So next time you notice you’re about to fall into one of these habits, think about the repercussions. Safe driving is good for you and everyone else on the road. Want to learn how these driving no-no’s can impact your car insurance? Check out our moving violations insight center . And if you do get pulled over by the police, remain calm and remember these 8 useful tips (during any time of year). Related: Find out what happens when you hand over your keys to the valet with these five valet parking confessions .  2.5k SHARES  VIEWS Tweet Share Reddit Pin Mail Google+ Print Whats App Tumblr LinkedIn Pocket Delicious Digg Subscribe Subscribe to our blog     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human: Safe and smart | Car safety  about Alex As copywriter for Esurance, Alex had professional experience in everything from film to literature to (thanklessly!) correcting the grammar in friends' emails. As a fervent Minnesota sports fan, he spends most of his non-writing time gently weeping into cereal bowls.  More by Author >  subscribe to our blog  Your email  Please select categories:    Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Leave this field empty if you're human:  visit our website For more tools and tips go to esurance.com .  protect your stuff Let Esurance help you protect the things that matter.  Select product  Auto Homeowners Renters Motorcycle   ZIP Code   quote  follow us   About Esurance | Esurance info center | Esurance mobile app | Stop by our website | Website accessibility © 2018 Esurance Insurance Services, Inc. All rights reserved.  You clearly enjoy good content Want more? Get fresh tips and hacks from Esurance delivered to your inbox every Monday.     Select all     DIY hacks     Insurance 101     Travel hacks     Safe and smart     Smart technology     All the news   Your email   Leave this field empty if you're human:         DIY hacks Insurance 101 Travel hacks Safe and smart Smart technology All the news Subscribe to the blog Visit esurance.com Get a quote                                        LinkedIn                                                   Sign in    Join now         Main content starts below.      What Are the Odds of Getting Pulled Over By the Cops? Published on May 3, 2016 Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Follow Following Unfollow Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Sign in to follow this author Founder, NowSourcing | Google Board Member | 2,000+ Infographics Created | Featured: NYT, Forbes, Entrepreneur, Mashable Did you know your odds of getting pulled over by the police are different according to your race and gender? Hispanic and black drivers are more likely than their white counterparts to be searched and ticketed when they are pulled over. According to the statistics, though, force is not used as often as you might think.  Police use force in traffic stops 1.2% of the time. That’s a lot less than you might think because of constant news stories about excessive force. Even drivers upon whom force was used typically think it was necessary in hindsight, according to survey results.  The prison population is another story, though. Whereas your odds of being pulled over vary according to your race by 4 or 5 percentage points, blacks and Hispanics are considerably more likely than their white counterparts to spend time in prison. Learn more about how race affects your odds of interacting with the police from this infographic!  Follow Following Unfollow Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Sign in to follow this author Brian Wallace, Infographic Expert Founder, NowSourcing | Google Board Member | 2,000+ Infographics Created | Featured: NYT, Forbes, Entrepreneur, Mashable 271 articles Looking for more of the latest headlines on LinkedIn? Discover more stories         Sign up    Help Center    About   Press  Blog  Developers    Careers  Advertising  Talent Solutions  Sales Solutions  Small Business  Mobile   Language    Bahasa Indonesia  Bahasa Malaysia  Čeština  Dansk  Deutsch  English  Español  繁體中文  Français  한국어  Italiano  简体中文  Nederlands  日本語  Norsk  Polski  Português  Română  Русский  Svenska  Tagalog  ภาษาไทย  Türkçe  العربية        Online Learning       Search Jobs    Directories  Members  Pulse  Topics  Companies  Universities  Titles  ProFinder    LinkedIn Corporation  © 2018   User Agreement  Privacy Policy  Community Guidelines  Cookie Policy  Copyright Policy  Unsubscribe                                       Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                      Wonkblog    The big question about why police pull over so many black drivers                  By Kim Soffen   By Kim Soffen  Email the author   July 8, 2016  Email the author  Follow @kimsoffen           President Obama made remarks to the International Association of Chiefs of Police, saying that police officers are "scapegoated for the broader failures of our society and criminal justice system." (WhiteHouse.gov)     Last October, President Obama told a gathering of police chiefs in Chicago about one way he had experienced racial bias before coming to the White House — while driving on the road.  "[M]ost of the time I got a ticket, I deserved it. I knew why I was pulled over. But there were times where I didn't," he said . "[T]here are a lot of African-Americans — not just me — who have that same kind of story of being pulled over. ...[T]he data shows that this is not an aberration. It doesn't mean each case is a problem. It means that when you aggregate all the cases and you look at it, you've got to say that there’s some racial bias in the system."  The fact that blacks get pulled over more than whites while on the road has long been a fact of American life. And on Wednesday evening, that reality became deadly when a Minnesota police officer shot and killed a black driver following a routine stop for a broken tail light, just one day after another fatal police shooting in Louisiana. (The violence continued in Dallas Thursday night, when snipers killed five police officers and injured more.)            1 of 58        Full Screen  Autoplay   Close                                                                                                                                          Skip Ad    ×            Protests in Minnesota and D.C. after a black man was fatally shot during a traffic stop       View Photos    Protesters gather in Falcon Heights, a St. Paul suburb, after the killing of 32-year-old Philando Castile.     Caption    Protesters gather in Falcon Heights, a St. Paul suburb, after the killing of 32-year-old Philando Castile.   July 10, 2016  A woman holds a sign as she marches with hundreds of others on streets in the District as they mourned and expressed outrage about the killings of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge and Philando Castile in St. Paul, Minn.  Marvin Joseph/The Washington Post   Buy Photo           Wait 1 second to continue.          While Obama is correct in asserting that blacks are disproportionately pulled over, it's actually rather hard to assess how much of the disparity is driven by racial discrimination by police officers. Data on driver race in police records is sparse, and it's hard to capture what's happening on a national scale. But what research has been done reveals a few key trends:  1) A survey released by the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 2014 found that nationwide, 13 percent of black drivers were stopped at least once by police during 2011, the last available data. For white drivers, that figure was 10 percent. Since this only captures whether drivers were stopped once, the disparity could be much bigger if black drivers were stopped more frequently than white drivers.     Though the BJS has not released more recent data, some individual states have these statistics, giving us reason to believe this pattern hasn’t gone away.  A study of Connecticut traffic stops in 2014 and 2015 — among the states with the most recent data — found that 14 percent of traffic stops targeted black drivers, despite them making up only 9 percent of the state’s population. Whites, on the other hand, made up 70 percent of the traffic stops, but about 80 percent of the population.  They also found the racial disparity was larger during the day than at night, when the officer can easily observe their race before turning on the sirens. The analogous statistic was not available for white drivers.  2) The racial disparity isn’t just limited to stops. Other police-driver contact — searches, tickets, arrests and license suspensions — show similar racial skews. A 2015 New York Times analysis found “wide racial differences in measure after measure of police conduct” in Ferguson, Mo., as well as in Connecticut, Illinois, North Carolina and Rhode Island, the states with the most comprehensive traffic stop data.  The Times analysis found that among the largest police departments in each of those four states, black drivers were between 1.5 and 5.2 times more likely to have their cars searched than white drivers.  These searches occur with the consent of the driver, so the officer doesn't need to meet any legal standard, like probable cause, to initiate one. Of course, he would need cause to pull over the driver in the first place, though minor violations like going a few miles over the speed limit or shifting lanes without a turn signal can offer that.       3) These disparities extend to other types of traffic stops. As far as tickets, a study of traffic stops in Bloomfield, N.J., released in April uncovered a high level of discrimination in ticketing. The majority-white town issued more than 80 percent of its tickets to black and Latino drivers from September 2014 to August 2015.  There are limits to what one can infer from one city, but same pattern was found across Connecticut. A 2015 analysis by the Hartford Courant found that black and Hispanic drivers who were stopped were 11 to 41 percent more likely to be ticketed than white offenders, depending on the offense committed.  And suspended licenses tell the same story. A report released earlier this year found that in California, black and Latino drivers are more likely than white drivers to be arrested for driving on a license suspended because of unpaid tickets, and minority neighborhoods have higher rates of license suspension than white ones.  4) While the data show conclusively that blacks have a disproportionate number of encounters with police at traffic stops, it hasn't shed much light on what portion of the disparity in all these metrics is driven by racial discrimination, and what portion is attributable to non-racial factors.  According to the National Institute of Justice , the research arm of the Department of Justice , other factors could include a difference in driving patterns — that is, if black drivers tend to just drive more miles than white drivers in certain jurisdictions, they could be stopped more often in those jurisdictions but have the same number of stops per mile. That would indicate against racial discrimination.  Further, black drivers could disproportionately drive in areas with a larger police presence, so they’re more likely to be pulled over than white drivers in less policed areas even without racial profiling by the police. Of course, if this is the case, it’s a bit of a chicken-and-egg problem. Are blacks pulled over disproportionately because they drive through highly policed areas (not discrimination), or are police highly packed into those areas because there are more black drivers (discrimination)?  The NIJ also cites a possible difference in committing stoppable offenses. Though many  studies find no difference between whites and blacks in driving habits, there is some evidence that seat-belt use is lower among black drivers and passengers, which could prompt disproportionate stops and tickets.  5) The situation gets even more complicated with respect to vehicle searches. In this case, it's less likely that these other factors are at work. It's more likely either statistical discrimination (targeting black people because they're more likely to be carrying contraband) and outright prejudice (targeting black people because of animus toward them). The first would indicate that black people are searched more because they’re more likely to carry contraband, while the latter would say that black people are searched more often because the police have an antagonism toward them.  It’s an important difference — the former is a result of the police maximizing the number of offenders who are caught, whereas the latter is a result of the police seeking to punish black drivers. The former — what people usually mean when they say "racial profiling" — is ethically controversial for literally targeting people of certain skin colors, but sometimes defended as merely an efficient use of resources. The latter, not so much.  In simple terms, the impact of these two types of discrimination can be compared by looking at the rate people of each race are caught with contraband after they’ve been searched. If black drivers are consistently less likely to be caught with contraband  than whites, that means the police are spending their time searching less-suspicious blacks rather than more-suspicious whites, indicating prejudice.  A 2006 study of police searches in Florida found no evidence of prejudice, but evidence of statistical discrimination. More recent figures from 2014 and 2015 published by the New York Times show blacks who are searched are around 20 percent less likely to be carrying contraband than whites who are searched. While that certainly raises the odds that prejudice is playing a role, it can't be said for certain without a more careful study.  To some, however, the distinction between statistical discrimination and outright prejudice isn't so great. “Racial profiling sends the dehumanizing message to our citizens that they are judged by the color of their skin,” reads a fact sheet from the Department of Justice. It cited a “moral obligation” to prohibit the practice. In other words, the department finds both statistical discrimination and prejudice to be unethical.  But others argue that racial discrimination in law enforcement is a cost-effective way to fight crime, a way to apprehend the most guilty people with the fewest officer hours.  New York City, under Mayor Michael Bloomberg,  fought to defend its “stop, question, and frisk” policy in court. Officers disproportionately stopped blacks by a large margin under the policy; that is, the officers statistically discriminated against them. The city's defense in court focused on the policy's impact — how many weapons were confiscated, how much crime had fallen — and less so on the racial disparity. The policy was struck down as an illegal search in federal court in 2013. The city filed an appeal at first, but Mayor Bill DeBlasio withdrew it after he assumed office, ending the practice.  Ethics aside, this is where the research leaves us: Black drivers certainly get more face-time with traffic cops. But to what extent that reflects discrimination, and whether that discrimination is based in racial prejudice, is more of an open question.       The officer who fatally shot Philando Castile, 32, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter. Here's what you need to know about the traffic stop gone wrong, which ended up live-streamed on Facebook. (Editor's note: This video has been updated.) (Monica Akhtar,Jenny Starrs,Gillian Brockell/The Washington Post)                                          Market Watch             Dow 24,447.29   Today   1.95%    S&P 2,657.02   Today   %    NASDAQ 7,068.2   Today   1.7%       Last Updated:12:01 PM 04/10/2018           Close    Now Playing                                                                       New Cars  Racing  Culture  Videos  Reviews  Subscribe   Give a Gift  Digital Editions      Follow                                                  Subscribe   Subscribe  Print Edition  Digital Edition  Give a Gift    News  Videos  New Cars   New Cars  First Drives  Road Tests  Long Term Tests  Comparison Tests  Future Cars & Spy Shots  Technology    Motorsports  Car Culture   Car Culture  Gear  Buying & Maintenance  Vintage  Style  Travel  Entertainment  Profiles  Design    Car Shows   Car Shows  National Auto Shows  Chicago Auto Show  Detroit Auto Show  Los Angeles Auto Show  New York Auto Show  International Auto Shows  Beijing Auto Show  Frankfurt Auto Show  Geneva Auto Show  Paris Auto Show  Qatar Auto Show  Seoul Auto Show  Shanghai Auto Show  Tokyo Auto Show    The Code  Follow   Follow  Facebook  Twitter  Google+  Pinterest  Instagram  YouTube    Win               Type keyword(s) to search              Today's Top Stories   1   Next-Gen Toyota 86, Subaru BRZ May Get More Power        2   15 Classic Cars That Are Criminally Overlooked        3   Crown Jewels:  Carrera GT, Enzo, SLR McLaren        4   Your Driving Coach Might Be Giving Dangerous Tips        5   Here's Every New Car That's 200 MPH or Faster           How to Reduce the Odds of Being Ticketed When You're Pulled Over  Obviously there are no guarantees, but this advice just might help.              By Collin Woodard     Nov 17, 2016                               Getty Images Joseph C. Justice, Jr.             No one likes getting pulled over, but unfortunately, it happens all the time. Maybe you're late to a meeting and get caught speeding. Or perhaps you roll a stop sign. Heck, sometimes you just miss the sign telling you that you're in a school zone. Whatever the cause, almost every driver knows the sinking feeling of seeing flashing blue lights in their rear-view mirror.  Advertisement - Continue Reading Below    But not every traffic stop has to result in a ticket. Consumer protection attorney and R&T contributor Steve Lehto has a full 25 years of experience dealing with traffic tickets (some of which are his own), speaking with officers, and listening to his own clients. In his latest podcast, he goes through the best ways to avoid getting ticketed. Some of his advice is relatively well-known, like the fact that you should pull over quickly when you see the lights come on. But a lot of what he has to say isn't as obvious. Give it a listen, and while we can't guarantee it'll work, following his advice will definitely help you out the next time you get pulled over.        Advertisement - Continue Reading Below         Advertisement - Continue Reading Below                         Share       Tweet       Email           More From  Car Culture         Coolest Cars with Boring Engines?       2018 DINAN S1 BMW M550i xDrive: First Drive     Advertisement - Continue Reading Below        The Next Land Rover Defender Will Come to the US        The Lamborghini You Forgot Is Still Lovely        Consider the Matador       Audi's Vision Gran Turismo Is a 804-HP Electric            12 Cars We Never Expected These Brands to Build          Why There Are Only Five Original K.I.T.T.s Left        So Many People Are Buying Crossovers It's Ridic        The Ferrari Superfast Sounds Super Good            Car Culture    When Should You Fight a Traffic Ticket?    10 tips to avoid speeding tickets    A Traffic Ticket Won't Be Thrown Out Because the Cop Made a Typo    How to lower the odds of getting ticketed during a traffic stop    Speeding Below the Speed Limit    Watch a cop on horse pull over a motorcycle    ticket    speeding ticket    traffic stop    steve lehto                                                               Digital Edition  Newsletter  About Us  Media Kit  Press Room  Contact Us  Community Guidelines  Advertise Online  About Our Ads  Customer Service  Subscribe  Other Hearst Subscriptions  Best Products  Give a Gift  Giveaways  Being Green  Why Did I Get This Ad?  Shop R&T   A Part of Hearst Digital Media  Road & Track participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites.   ©2018 Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Terms of Use  Sitemap                 Share       Tweet       Email                      Skip to content           GO                                Go                                About  Contact  CT Mirror  CTViewpoints  Our data            TrendCT  The story in numbers       TrendCT (https://trendct.org/2015/07/06/police-tickets-in-connecticut/)                  About  Contact  CT Mirror  CTViewpoints  Our data      Global Navigation              Crime  When do police most often pull over drivers? And for what?  By  Andrew Ba Tran | July 6, 2015  Like Tweet  Email Print  More     More on Crime   Subscribe to Crime            Andrew Ba Tran Data Editor    The day before the Fourth of July produced the fifth-highest daily count of traffic stops last year in Connecticut.  This is according to traffic-stop data from the Office of Policy and Management, which is available because of a law compelling law enforcement agencies to electronically submit their traffic-stop information. Analysts have looked at the data and said they found significant racial disparities in some municipal departments and State Police troops.  But there is still more to discover in such a rich data set.  So TrendCT took a deeper look at the nearly 600,000 tickets issued in Connecticut between October 2013 and September 2014. We’ll be running several stories looking at various parts of the data. But today, we’re looking at when police most often pull drivers over — and for what.  When are you most likely to get pulled over?  We’ll start with the raw totals throughout the year.   It’s easier to see why some days have such a high tally, given their proximity to federal holidays. More people on the road means more opportunities for citations.  But a couple of days in May and September are among the 10 days with the most traffic stops. If anyone knows why those days in particular seem to yield a high number of tickets, let us know in the comments below.     Daily average number of tickets  Based on the first seven days, the last seven days, and the days between of each month.     First week  Middle weeks  Last week      6,333  6,453  6,764     CTData Collaborative   Those high-volume days, plus Memorial Day and Labor Day, make September and May the heaviest months of the year for drivers getting pulled over.  The colder months of February and December are periods when police stop drivers the least.  More stops occur on average during the last seven days of the month versus all other days. In fact, days during the last week of the month yield about 400 more traffic stops on average than days during the first week.  What are drivers most often ticketed for?  More than 25 percent of all drivers getting pulled over in Connecticut were speed-related, making it the top offense.  Interestingly, cell phone use while driving is the category with the fourth-most stops. It was introduced as a violation in 2005 . The state police pulled drivers the most for this violation (15,718 tickets), followed by Danbury and Wallingford (2,465 and 1,339 respectively).   The generic “Other” is the second-most-common reason drivers get stopped. “Other” could refer to things like violating exhaust emission inspection requirements and driving without a license.  But looking more closely, about 48 percent of all “Other” traffic stops were for “ failure to observe parkway or expressway restrictions “. This could be interpreted as a way for officers to ticket drivers for exceeding the speed limit, but without the higher fines and consequences of a speeding ticket.   Related Stories   Who gets off with a warning after a traffic stop in Connecticut?  What time of day drivers get pulled over in Connecticut?  Police departments that hand out the most traffic tickets in Connecticut  When do police most often pull drivers over? And for what?  Connecticut’s deep data dive on racial profiling  Q&A with the CT Data Collaborative: What to watch out for when analyzing the racial profiling data          About Andrew Ba Tran Andrew is a data editor at TrendCT.org and the Connecticut Mirror. He teaches data visualization at Central Connecticut State University as well intro to data journalism at Wesleyan University as a Koeppel Fellow.

He was a founding producer of The Boston Globe's Data Desk where he used a variety of methods to visualize or tell stories with data. Andrew also was an online producer at The Virginian-Pilot and a staff writer at the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. He’s a Metpro Fellow, a Chips Quinn Scholar, and a graduate of the University of Texas.         More by Andrew   What do you think?        mathlady     Perhaps the early September ones coincide with the start of school in many areas?        Don     This is correct.  Most departments beef up enforcement inside school zones for the first week of school.          RuthGT     Federal grants to support state/local enforcement efforts are generally available around holidays.  Perhaps similar grants were available during those May/Sept dates?           Sponsored by     Trending  Where children suffer from lead poisoning in Connecticut    What your neighbors are charging strangers on Airbnb to stay in their homes    Where Syrian refugees and immigrants live in Connecticut   Who we are    What is Trend CT?    Databases        Traffic stops in Connecticut  Look up local police departments      Your School Comparison  Explore data on your school      Campaign contributions  Pres. candidate donations      Tracking legislation  Search bills by subject     Tutorials  Tutorial: How to create R functions and packages    A gentle introduction to APIs for data journalists    Cleaning up CT place names in Python    Tutorial: Spatial analysis of census and traffic stop data using R    Real-world data cleanup with Python and Pandas    The CT Mirror CT’s performance on ‘Nation’s Report Card’ doesn’t budge Sandy Hook Promise founder Mark Barden weighs 5th District race Zuckerberg apologizes, Blumenthal says that’s not enough  CT Viewpoints The value of a young mind — a Hartford case in point To save Connecticut, we must open the 2017 SEBAC agreement We can reverse the decline of race relations Topics   Animals   Announcement   Budget   Business   Crime   Data   Data problem   Demographics   Drugs   Education   Election   Energy   Environment   Featured   Food   Game   guns   Health   Health Care   Housing   Income   Jobs   Lists   lottery   Meta   Open Data   Politics   Poverty   Religion   Sports   Traffic   Transportation   Walkthrough   Weather               Home  About  Contact      Story  Teaser    Explore CT school districts’ achievement gap by race and ethnicity       Story Teaser    2015 DataHaven Community Wellbeing Survey navigator       Our partner sites The Connecticut Mirror  CT Viewpoints      Sponsors Hartford Foundation For Public Giving                   © Copyright 2018, CT Mirror     Built with the Largo WordPress Theme from the Institute for Nonprofit News .    Back to top ↑                                                              brobible  Gear           Style           Culture           Sports           Success           Fitness           Relationships           Shop                 Search for:       About BroBible    About  Privacy  Terms     Facebook   Twitter   Instagram   YouTube   FlipBoard   Get brobible Everywhere.       Follow @brobible     Follow brobible        FlipBoard                             The Bangor Maine Police Department Is Doing It Right      Life   Here’s How To Reduce The Odds Of Getting A Ticket When You Get Pulled Over By Police  #Travel  by Paul Sacca  1 year ago       Facebook Twitter FlipBoard   Via Flickr  There will be 43.5 million Americans hitting the road this week as they visit family and friends over the Thanksgiving break, an increase of 1.9% compared to last year according to AAA . You’ll be out on the highways and byways, so there’s a chance that you’ll be late to your nana’s house for Aunt Brenda’s famous mac n’ cheese and get pulled over for speeding. But there just might be a glimmer of hope for you to avoid getting a traffic ticket.  Steve Lehto , who has been practicing Lemon Law and Consumer Protection for 23 years, has come out with a video that will teach you how to reduce your chances of getting a traffic ticket this busy holiday week.  When those flashing lights are behind you there are certain things you can do to accommodate the police officer so they are more likely to accommodate you and not give you a ticket that could cost you thousands.  Tips On How To Reduce Your Odds Of Getting A Traffic Ticket:   As soon as you see a police cruiser behind you do not jam on the breaks, instead coast.  Pull over quickly, but safely, using your blinker and caution.  Steer your car to the side of the road and try to get as far to the right as possible.  Roll down your window completely.  Turn on your overhead interior light.  Put your hands on the steering wheel at 10 and 2.  Do not admit that you broke the law.  The cop may ask “Do you know how fast you were going?” Say “I’m sorry officer, I don’t know how fast I was going, I apologize.”  If asked for license, registration, and insurance, tell the officer that you are going to get the papers for him and explain your hand movements.  While the officer is checking your information, sit still while waiting for the cop to return, and don’t make sudden movements.  Do not say anything remarkable to the officer during the traffic stop that may incriminate you in court later.   In a time when police officers are being ambushed during traffic stops , it’s a wise decision to make their and your experience as safe and pleasant as possible. Being polite, courteous, and respectful to law enforcement is more likely to get you out of an expensive ticket or have a reduced charge. While being disrespectful and mouthing off to the police will only hurt you in the end.  May you have safe and ticket-free travels this holiday season.       Share This   Facebook  Twitter  FlipBoard      TAGS Cops driving Police tickets Travel      Join The Discussion                                           Guyism  About BroBible  Advertise  Staff  Events & Concerts  Write for BroBible  Terms  Privacy  Tip Off    Copyright © 2008-2018 BroBible. All rights reserved.  Powered by WordPress.com VIP                          Post to     Cancel           