              Toggle navigation        Home  Poker   Hand Ranking   Types of Odds   Mathematics   WSOP’s Youngest Poker Winner  Using Casino Bonuses   How to get started in poker   Poker Tournaments   Playing Online Casino games  How to Play Poker?   Improve your poker skills   Top 5 mistakes made by beginners at No Limit Hold’em poker   Can you make money from no deposit bonuses  Choosing the best online casinos  New casinos and the rate at which they're entering the UK market  Which bonus do you choose  Keeping Your Cool  Foreign language casinos   Popular Poker Variants Compared: 3-Card Poker and 7-Card Stud  What is Casino Poker and Why do we Care  What are the main Poker Personalities  Keeping Your Cool  The best poker players come around at live events  Links   Overview   All links   B&M Poker   Gambling Directories   Casino Reviews   Online Casinos   Other Games   Other Languages   News & Forums   Poker Room reviews   Poker Rooms   Poker Strategy   Poker Supplies   Sports Book       High Hands   Stats and Odds   Stats and Odds (details)   Evaluate Hand   7 Card Evaluation     Low Hands   Stats and Odds   Stats and Odds (details)   Evaluate
                                    Hand   7 Card Evaluation     Texas Hold'em   Starting Hands   Analyze Flop   Starting Hand Table   Brief History     Seven Card Stud   Starting Hands  Starting Hands (details)  Analyze 5th Street     Omaha   Starting Hands   Starting Hands (details)   Hand Evaluation   Hand Evaluation High Low           rolled-up   all hands  rolled-up         Seven Card Stud Odds and Ranking for Rolled Up  Number of Hands: 52 of 22.100 Odds: 424/1  Different Ranks: 13         category  number  odds  distrib  chance  totaled     Aces   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,02%     Kings   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,04%     Queens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,05%     Jacks   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,07%     Tens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,09%     Nines   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,11%     Eights   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,13%     Sevens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,14%     Sixes   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,16%     Fives   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,18%     Fours   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,20%     Threes   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,22%     Deuces   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,24%        Examples for Rolled Up Strong Hand:   rolled up, aces Show fifth street results Bad Hand:   rolled up, deuces Show fifth street results        Notes On top you see Seven Card Stud hand odds for Rolled Up . The category Rolled Up is broken up into the following 13 groups: Aces, Kings, Queens, Jacks, Tens, Nines, Eights, Sevens, Sixes, Fives, Fours, Threes and Deuces For more information about the numbers displayed, please read the Seven Card Stud notes .          2009 - 2017 © poker-base.com All Rights Reserved.    Email: info@poker-base.com                          Online Poker  Mobile Poker  US Poker Sites  Poker Reviews  Poker  Bonus  Mac Poker Sites  Poker Games  Poker Strategy  Poker News  Deposit           Online Poker > Stud
Poker  Strategy > Seven Card Stud Odds   Seven Card Stud Odds   Odds of Being Dealt and Completing
                                        Certain Hands in 7 Card Stud  Seven Card Stud is fairly easy to learn but at the same
		                  time, the combinations of hands are notably higher than
		                  that of Holdem or Omaha. Based on the probability of the
		                  number of outcomes available with each player holding seven
		                  cards, you want to ensure that you play your hand with the
		                  highest chance of hitting and holding the strongest hand.
		                  You also want to make sure that when you do play a hand,
		                  your hand isn’t so common that it becomes easily beatable.  Winning seven card stud requires players to understand
		                    their hands and the possible outcomes. A good stud
		                    strategy is to ensure your starting with at least three of a kind
		                    to move forward. Obviously your odds of receiving three
		                    of a kind on the deal or by 3rd street will depend greatly
		                    on the number of players in the hand and future betting
		                    rounds as well as the cards your opponents are holding.  Understanding the odds
		                    in Seven Card Stud will give you the ability to make
		                    correct decisions which ultimately leads to positive
		                    EV. You’ll
		                  need to use pot odds if
		                  your drawing to a particular hand and even have the
		                  basics of calculating implied
		                  odds since the betting in later streets will increase
		                  significantly. Below you’ll
		                  find a 7 Card Stud odds chart. This chart only provides
		                  odds on being dealt a specific hand so you can see
		                  how frequent or rare a stud
		                  poker starting hand is.  Odds of Being Dealt A Particular Hand in Seven Card Stud  Your odds of being dealt three
		                    of a kind - 424:1 Your odds of being
		                    dealt 3 suited cards - 18:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a straight if the first three
		                  cards are sequenced - 6:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a flush if the first three cards
		                  are suited - 5:1 Your
		                    odds of being dealt any pair with your first three
		                  cards - 5:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a full house if your hand holds
		                  three of a kind and three other cards on sixth street
		                - 4:1 Your odds of completing
		                    a full house if the first four cards combine to
		                  make two pair - 3.5:1 Your odds of completing
		                    two pair if you start with a pair in the first three
		                  card - 1.4:1 Your odds of improving
		                    to at least two pair if you begin with a straight
		                  flush draw like 7 8 9 -
		                  1.2:1 Your odds of completing
		                    a full house if you hold three-of-a-kind and three
		                  other cards on sixth street - 1.1:1  From the chart above you’ll see a wide range from
		                  one hand to the next when looking at the odds of completing
		                  a particular hand. This is because of the number of
		                  combinations that can be used. Likewise the odds of
		                  drawing to a flush and straight is just as gapped
		                  with multiple possibilities and combinations in play. 
The table below shows your seven card stud odds for flushes and straights.  Odds Draw to One Card in Seven Card Stud (Flushes & Straights)  Your odds to draw one card to a flush - 1:45 Your odds of holding a double open-ended straight - 1:5 Your odds of holding an open ended straight - 1:11 Your odds of holding an inside straight - 1:11 Your odds of holding a double open ended straight
		                    flush - 1:23 Your odds of holding an inside straight flush - 1:46 Your odds of being rolled up with three of a
	                    kind and improving to a full house - 1:3     Navigation   Online Poker (Home)  Poker Sites Reviews  US  Online Poker   US Sportsbooks  Canadian Poker Sites  UK / Euro Poker Sites   Other Top Pages   Biggest Poker Bonus  Poker Deposit Options  PayPal Gambling Sites  New Poker Sites  Largest
          Poker Traffic Sites  3D Poker Sites  Small Poker Rooms  High Stakes Poker Sites  Legal Poker Sites   Compatibility   Mac Compatible Poker  No Download Poker  Mobile Poker Apps   Poker Strategy / Rules   Poker Strategy  Beginner Strategy  Intermediate  Strategy  Advanced
	    Strategy  How To Play Poker  Online Poker Games  Card Games   Bonus Code / VIP    Ignition Poker Review  BetOnline.com Poker Review  888 Poker Bonus          Other Quality Pages  Bitcoin  Small
				Stakes Poker Sites  Free
				Instant Poker Bankrolls    Contact Us  About
			    Us  Our
			    Editors  Privacy
			    policy  Disclaimer  FAQ  Legal
		    / UIGEA  Copyright 2003 - 2018 OnlinePoker.Net - All Rights Reserved - 18+ - Please Gamble Responsibly                                                      2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > General Poker Strategy    > Beginners Questions        Odds in 7 Card Stud             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Beginners Questions  Poker beginner? 

Ask your (possibly) naive question here and our community will attempt to help you.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       06-16-2012, 01:47 PM   # 1       bewilderedman    journeyman    Join Date: Sep 2011  Posts: 255         Odds in 7 Card Stud      what are the odds of being dealt three of a kind  happened the other day for the first time,don't play it very often though                    bewilderedman   View Public Profile  Send a private message to bewilderedman  Find More Posts by bewilderedman  Find Threads Started by bewilderedman                     06-16-2012, 01:51 PM   # 2       kamikaze baby    old hand       Join Date: Aug 2011  Location: Canada!  Posts: 1,971         Re: Odds in 7 Card Stud      First card doesn't matter, your second card will match your first 3/51 times, and your third card will then match the first two 2/50 times. So the probability you get dealt rolled trips is (3/51)(2/50) = 1/425.                    kamikaze baby   View Public Profile  Send a private message to kamikaze baby  Find More Posts by kamikaze baby  Find Threads Started by kamikaze baby                    06-16-2012, 05:32 PM   # 3       MikeBandy    adept    Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: USA  Posts: 910         Re: Odds in 7 Card Stud        Quote:     Originally Posted by kamikaze baby    First card doesn't matter, your second card will match your first 3/51 times, and your third card will then match the first two 2/50 times. So the probability you get dealt rolled trips is (3/51)(2/50) = 1/425.     1/425 means you'll be rolled up once every 425 times.  There are thirteen ranks. 425 x 13 = 5,525, so the probability of being rolled up with aces is 1/5525.  Odds expresses the times of success to the times of failure. The odds against being rolled up is 424:1 (424 to 1). The odds against being rolled up with aces is 5524:1.                    MikeBandy   View Public Profile  Send a private message to MikeBandy  Find More Posts by MikeBandy  Find Threads Started by MikeBandy                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:19 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.       Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                        Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                                                              2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > General Poker Strategy    > Beginners Questions        What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Beginners Questions  Poker beginner? 

Ask your (possibly) naive question here and our community will attempt to help you.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       07-05-2009, 06:08 PM   # 1       pokerbucket    stranger    Join Date: Aug 2008  Location: oakland ca  Posts: 14         What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      This was nuts.... I was playing a heads up match... and we both started with 3 of a kind... does anyone know how to calculate the odd of this?                    pokerbucket   View Public Profile  Send a private message to pokerbucket  Find More Posts by pokerbucket  Find Threads Started by pokerbucket                     07-05-2009, 06:17 PM   # 2       AngusThermopyle    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2005  Location: Floor Yellow  Posts: 14,459         Re: What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      You X 52/52 (ie any card) Him Y (not X) 47/51 You X 3/50 Him Y 3/49 You X 2/48 Him Y 2/47  Multiply together.                    AngusThermopyle   View Public Profile  Send a private message to AngusThermopyle  Find More Posts by AngusThermopyle  Find Threads Started by AngusThermopyle                    07-05-2009, 07:02 PM   # 3       VBAces    old hand    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 1,927         Re: What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      In Razz, I think I'm about 50% to start rolled up                     VBAces   View Public Profile  Send a private message to VBAces  Find More Posts by VBAces  Find Threads Started by VBAces                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:19 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.       Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                        Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                                                              2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > Other Poker Strategy    > Stud        odds of being rolled up twice in a row?             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Stud  Discussions of various forms of stud poker.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       01-12-2008, 03:31 AM   # 1       Xyphox    centurion    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 122         odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Just wondering what the odds of getting rolled up trips twice in a row are. I just got rolled up 6's and then rolled up 10's. Unfortunately i was playing razz lol.                    Xyphox   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Xyphox  Find More Posts by Xyphox  Find Threads Started by Xyphox                     01-12-2008, 03:43 AM   # 2       RustyBrooks    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Austin, TX  Posts: 23,428         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Is there an echo in here?                    RustyBrooks   View Public Profile  Send a private message to RustyBrooks  Find More Posts by RustyBrooks  Find Threads Started by RustyBrooks                     01-12-2008, 03:49 AM   # 3       ChipsAhoya    2011 $10k Stud8 Champion       Join Date: Oct 2004  Location: Splitting pots on a slide  Posts: 6,841         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by RustyBrooks    Is there an echo in here?     SRSLY!  -ChipsAhoya                    ChipsAhoya   View Public Profile  Send a private message to ChipsAhoya  Find More Posts by ChipsAhoya  Find Threads Started by ChipsAhoya                     01-12-2008, 04:48 AM   # 4       chucky    Pooh-Bah       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Best time Evar  Posts: 4,998         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      1/(17X25) squared                    chucky   View Public Profile  Send a private message to chucky  Find More Posts by chucky  Find Threads Started by chucky                     01-12-2008, 05:14 AM   # 5       Big Limpin    veteran       Join Date: Dec 2004  Location: chair  Posts: 2,091         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by chucky    1/(17X25)     fyp, ducy?                    Big Limpin   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Big Limpin  Find More Posts by Big Limpin  Find Threads Started by Big Limpin                     01-12-2008, 01:07 PM   # 6       Beavis68    Pooh-Bah    Join Date: May 2004  Location: AZ  Posts: 5,812         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      1:1                    Beavis68   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Beavis68  Find More Posts by Beavis68  Find Threads Started by Beavis68                     01-12-2008, 02:39 PM   # 7       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      according to west you get rolled up trips once in 425 hands.  so to get consecutive rolled up....(1/425) x (1/425) = 1/180625 ( same as 1/(17 x 25)*2, as posted above)  odds of being rolled up, but given fact you had them last hand changes nothing. still 424-1.                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-12-2008, 02:53 PM   # 8       RustyBrooks    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Austin, TX  Posts: 23,428         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Yes, of course, if you just had a rolled hand, your odds of getting on the next hand again is still 425:1.  However, if you are sitting at the hand before the first rolled up hand, the odds of the next 2 hands being rolled up are (425*425):1  Just like the odds of me picking up a coin right now and flipping heads twice is 25% not 50%                    RustyBrooks   View Public Profile  Send a private message to RustyBrooks  Find More Posts by RustyBrooks  Find Threads Started by RustyBrooks                     01-13-2008, 07:48 AM   # 9       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by RustyBrooks    Yes, of course, if you just had a rolled hand, your odds of getting on the next hand again is still 425:1.     hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-14-2008, 02:40 AM   # 10       Xyphox    centurion    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 122         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      lol nice. So I thought that's how you'd calculate it. How would you calculate something like the odds of being rolled up 2 out of the next 3 hands?                    Xyphox   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Xyphox  Find More Posts by Xyphox  Find Threads Started by Xyphox                     01-14-2008, 03:01 AM   # 11       Andy B    Your Ad Here       Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: Unregistering  Posts: 15,017         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      3! * (1/425)^2 --------------- 2! 1!  or three times the previously-cited figure.  An explanation can be found in this thread .                    Andy B   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Andy B  Find More Posts by Andy B  Find Threads Started by Andy B                     01-14-2008, 07:19 AM   # 12       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      let Y be the number of times you are rolled up  Y -  B( n , p )   where n = number of trials, and p = probability of success  so in your example, Y - B( 3 , 1/425 )  general binomial formula is :P(Y=r) =  nCr x (p)*r x (1-p)*n-r  so for us its ,  P(Y=2) = 3C2 x (1/425)*2 x (424/425)*1  =  0.000016569  so Andy your almost right, just forgot the (1-p)*n-r bit                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-15-2008, 02:41 AM   # 13       Andy B    Your Ad Here       Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: Unregistering  Posts: 15,017         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Yeah, OK, I gave the chance that one would be rolled-up two times or more in the space of three hands.  The thread from four years ago makes that clear.                     Andy B   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Andy B  Find More Posts by Andy B  Find Threads Started by Andy B                     07-19-2010, 07:47 AM   # 14       joshinho    journeyman       Join Date: May 2008  Location: Australia  Posts: 390         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      It happened once to me sonny- waaay back in the spring of '38 in a quiet little town in South Carolina. It was harvesting time as I recall it, and the circus was in town.  Me, Jimbo and the boys were playing a some cards out on the porch about 5 in the afternoon just to pass the time. That's what we used to do in those days, you see.  The game was 7-stud - one of my best. Jimbo's brother had been beating me like a red-headed step child all day and i'd been running so bad - heck I couldn't catch a cold let alone catch rolled up 6's twice in a row. But thats exactly what happened next.  Jimbo's brother Cletus had the Ace showing and I decided to just call his completed bet with my 6. Well then he hit another Ace and fired at me again and I just called him again. I knew he didnt have the set of A's because I had one on 5th and Jimbo had thrown one away earlier.  I checked called him again and again and by 7th cletus was really starting to get anxious. I raised him on the end with my 6's full of K's and raked a huge pot- mainly money I had lost to him earlier anyways.  He was furious that he'd lost all that profit but didnt expect to get a second walloping the very next hand. I showed a 6 again and looked down only to see 2 more glaring back at me with 666, the number of the devil, for the 2nd time. I guessed today was my lucky day.  This time Cletus showed the King and as was his style he bet out. I raised him this time to disguise the hand and he made some smart comment like 'Y'all caint tell me you have those darn rolled up 6's again cain ya?".  I laughed mockingly and told him that it was surely an impossibility. He continued to fire at me until all of his money ended up in the middle. I had once again filled up on 6th street with the Jack so was feeling might comfortable with my hand. Sure enough I had him beat and showed him the rolled up 6's with the 2 Jacks along side. He couldn't believe his eyes and got up in disgust- and stormed off down the road- obviously not realising yet that we were at HIS house.  Me and Maud went out for dinner that night on the winnings. Ah those were the days. I never expected that kind of thing to happen again in my lifetime but you proved me wrong today sonny- you proved me wrong...  Thanks for letting me share and recount those memories.                    joshinho   View Public Profile  Send a private message to joshinho  Find More Posts by joshinho  Find Threads Started by joshinho                     07-19-2010, 08:21 AM   # 15       realsheesha    veteran       Join Date: Apr 2009  Location: The Netherlands  Posts: 2,297         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Merton0806    hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .     Must be great having you as a friend                    realsheesha   View Public Profile  Send a private message to realsheesha  Find More Posts by realsheesha  Find Threads Started by realsheesha                     07-19-2010, 10:58 AM   # 16       BestServedCold    centurion       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Bullhead City/Laughlin  Posts: 199         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Merton0806    hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .     Not a lot of people know this but roulette existed before those electronic results boards and it was a dying game. The casinos weren't getting a lot of players and it takes up too much space.  Those boards saved the game from a casino revenue standpoint and despite the fact that it's not as bad a game as many players think it is, it usually accounts for the highest per table revenue of any casino game.                    BestServedCold   View Public Profile  Send a private message to BestServedCold  Find More Posts by BestServedCold  Find Threads Started by BestServedCold                     07-25-2010, 09:51 PM   # 17       Ramstone    grinder       Join Date: Apr 2005  Location: Monte Carlo, playing Chemin de Fer  Posts: 517         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Odds you'll be ahead after playing both rolled up hands:  1 in 200                    Ramstone   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Ramstone  Find More Posts by Ramstone  Find Threads Started by Ramstone                    07-25-2010, 11:03 PM   # 18       AceMcSpadez    newbie    Join Date: Jul 2010  Posts: 36         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Ramstone    Odds you'll be ahead after playing both rolled up hands:  1 in 200     +1                       AceMcSpadez   View Public Profile  Send a private message to AceMcSpadez  Find More Posts by AceMcSpadez  Find Threads Started by AceMcSpadez                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:19 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.       Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                           Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                          Home | Top 10 | Bonus Codes | Bookmark      Glossary  Articles  Store  Books  Reviews  Forum        7 Card Stud Strategy   The Basics   Preparing To Play   How To Play   Betting Rules   Hand Rankings  Strategy Guide   Key Points   7 Card Stud - Hi   7 Card Stud Hi - Low   Advanced   Tournament     Tips & Tricks   Strategy Elements   Odds   Win Percentage   Hand Value    Counting Cards   Using Position  Strategy Notes   Slow-Playing    Free-Raise   (more...)   Resources     Poker Players Alliance           This site endorses the practice of responsible gaming .    Stud Poker Odds - What are the 
            odds of me hitting... Based on the 
            probability of how many ways particular hands that can be dealt at a table with 
            seven cards from a 52 card deck, the way that you want to play your combinations 
            is to achieve the higher ranking hands where probabilities aren't out of the 
            range of 'realistic'. You also don't want to be playing hands that are far too 
            common and can be easily beaten.     Hand  7 cards          Straight Flush  41,584    Four of a Kind  224,848    Full House  3,473,184    Flush  4,047,644    Straight  6,180,020    Three of a Kind  6,461,620    Two Pair  31,433,400    One Pair  58,627,800    High Card  23,294,460     Looking down the 
            chart which is arranged from the highest possible made hand to the lowest hand, 
            you see that there is a large mathematical leap between ways that a four-of-a 
            kind hand and a full house can be dealt with seven cards. The range of 
            realistically catching better than a full house comes to a screeching halt. 
            There is another large gap between three-of-a-kind and two pair. The starting hand 
            combination strategy used for winning seven card stud hands, promotes aspiring 
            to achieve the median; three of a kind or better. The odds of catching the 
            median hands differ depending on how many players are at a table, how many 
            players continue on to later betting rounds, and the type of hands that any 
            player at a table is striving to achieve. In my experience 
            at fully seated low-stakes tables, it is not uncommon that players are using 
            combinations that will make two pair or better. When playing for two pair, 
            naturally you will want to have the highest two pair, and strategy is adjusted 
            accordingly. The table below 
            shows odds for flushes and straights. You can determine your odds based on the 
            number of persons in a multi-way pot. For example, if you have one card to draw 
            to a flush, your best odds to catch your flush is to have 4-5 people calling 
            bets. Straights happen most often at stud hi/low tables because there are so 
            many people in the hand at a time, more closely matching the odds needed to 
            catch that particular hand.     Draw one card with    Odds            Four cards to a flush    1 in 4.5    Double open-ended straight    1 in 5    Open-ended straight (1 end)    1 in 11    Inside Straight    1 in 11    Double open-ended straight 
                    flush    1 in 23    Open-ended straight flush (1 
                    end)    1 in 46    Inside Straight Flush    1 in 46    Rolled up with 3-of-a-kind    40% chance of improvement to a full house 
                    by the river.     More information 
            on hand odds is available here.  »Next»  Featured Site   bonus code: tilt4stud    Play Online              Play online poker for free at the top card rooms or, deposit money to play real games and win real money. Check out our deposit bonus code promotions ! Questions about easy deposit options ? Get the answers here.  Exlcusive Store Items    Card Counting Trainer Mouse Pad   Starting Hand Hi-Low Mouse Pad    Webmasters · Advertise · Banners · Links · Contact Us   All Content © 2003 - 2011 StudStrategy.com - HC Webs    7 card stud, stud strategy, 
  stud poker,  seven card stud, seven-card stud, stud, poker strategy, stud 
  hi-lo, stud high-low, stud hi-low, hi/low, limit stud, low limit stud, poker 
  glossary, online poker, poker online, play poker online, poker games, poker 
  books, how to play poker, poker, how to play poker, online poker, learn to play, 
  strategy, strategies, gambling, online poker, internet poker, internet, tactics, 
  winning poker, poker rules, ,poker history, poker tips, gambling, gaming, card 
  rooms, cardrooms online, online card rooms, casinos, wsop, WSOP, world series of 
  poker, poker champions, top poker, poker players, limit stud, limit, pot limit, 
  ParadisePoker.com, Pokerschoolonline.com, Pokerstars, UltimateBet, Paradise 
  Poker, Poker School, Poker Stars, Ultimate Bet, Party Poker, Empire Poker, 
  Planet Poker, 24 hour poker, Poker Top 100, WPT, World Poker Tour, poker store, 
  poker chips, cards, card shuffler, responsible gaming, responsible gambling, 
  gamblers anonymous, card games, starting hands, odds, poker odds, poker starting 
  hands, starting hand, 7 card stud school, poker affiliates, cardroom affiliates, 
  poker employment, poker props, poker jobs, counting cards, card counting, 
  community card, community cards, poker rules, official rules, Clonie Gowen, 
  FullTiltPoker.com, Full Tilt Poker, FullTilt, Full Tilt, Howard Lederer DVD, 
  Annie Duke, Evelyn Ng                 Rolled Up  Rolled-Up - Three of a Kind  by Jesse Knight       ♠ Poker Vibe  Poker Strategy  ♥ Online Poker ♥ Texas Holdem ♥ Omaha Poker ♥ Poker Theory ♥ Tournament Poker  How to Play Poker  ♥ How to Play Texas Holdem ♥ How to Play Badugi ♥ How to Play Omaha ♥ How to Play Stud ♥ How to Play Razz ♥ How to Play Stud High Low  Poker Basics  ♥ Texas Holdem Basics ♥ Poker Terms ♥ Poker Hands ♥ Poker Tells ♥ Poker Information ♥ Texas Holdem Online  Online Poker Tournaments  ♥ Sit n Go Tournament Tips ♥ Poker Freerolls  Book Reviews  Site Map    Rolled Up – Being dealt three of a kind on third street in any one of several types of Seven Card Stud games.  In most seven card stud games, players are dealt a three card starting hand before the first round of betting. This is commonly 
      referred to as third street, and usually consists of two cards delivered face down followed by one card delivered face up. If all 
      three cards have the same ranking (if they were all Jacks, for instance), the player would have three of a kind on the first 3 cards 
      dealt to him. This condition, having three of a kind on the first three cards, is called being “rolled up.”  This term is mostly used in stud games which employ a three card starting hand. This includes 7-Card Stud Hi/Lo and
      Razz. However, since Razz is a lowball game, being rolled up is a bad thing; it 
      makes your hand practically worthless. By contrast, in High Only and Hi/Lo games, it is extremely valuable to be rolled up. It is a 
      premium starting hand in both games, but it is especially valuable in the High Only game. In this game, being rolled up is far and 
      away the best starting hand, and will win a good percentage of hands without improving. If you are rolled up in 7-Card Stud High, you 
      will be in the lead unless someone else is rolled up with a higher rank.  In Seven Card Stud Hi/Lo a rolled up hand also has a lot of value, although not nearly as much as in the High Only game. This is 
      because the high hand must often split the pot with the low hand in Hi/Lo Stud. This significantly mitigates the value of a high only 
      hand. Two way hands like low straight flush draws and hands with aces will often perform as well if not better then being rolled up, depending upon the situation.  The odds against being rolled up are 1/ 425, which is commonly written as 424 to 1 against. For those who are unfamiliar with how to 
      calculate this, I will go over it here. Keep in mind that this method of calculation is useful for other types poker calculations as 
      well.  First, let me state the obvious by saying that you will be dealt three cards at the start of the hand. In order to be rolled up all 
      three cards must match in rank. In order to determine how likely this is we need to consider all the ways it is possible to be rolled 
      up, as well as all the ways it is not possible. A probability is essentially a comparison between an event happening and that same event 
      not happening. Since it is a comparison it can be evaluated using fractions. We will build the equation, but first, consider the following:  The first card you are dealt will have no bearing on whether or not you are rolled up. No matter the rank of the first card, so long 
      as the second card matches it, you will have a chance to be rolled up We also know that there are 52 cards in the deck with 4 cards 
      of each rank .  We know we will be dealt a first card. Of this we are 100% sure so we will give it a probability of 1, which is equivalent to 100%. 
      For our second card, we now have the possibility of receiving the remaining 51 cards in the deck, of which only 3 will match our rank 
      and allow us to continue our quest to be rolled up. We are now ready to set up the first part of the equation. We take the probability 
      of receiving a first card (1) and multiply it by the probability of us receiving a second matching card (3 out of 51, or 3/51).  So the first part of our equation is: 1 x (3/51)  So we know that 3 out of 51 times our first two cards will match, but to be rolled up all three of our cards must match. We now have 
      to add our third card to the equation. At this point we have seen two cards, leaving us with 50 possibilities for our third card. 
      Assuming that our first two cards matched, only two of the 50 cards will result in us being rolled up (2/50). So if we consider the 
      possibility that our first two cards will match 1 x (3/51) and consider further when our third card also matches (2/50), we are left 
      with an equation of:  1 x (3/51) x (2/50) = 6/2550, which reduces to 1/425. This means that for every 425 starting hand you are dealt, on average, 1 will be 
      rolled up. Written as odds (a ratio) this is 424:1.  Usage: Was Rolled-Up, Rolled up Aces  Previous Poker Term: Rock Next Poker Term: Royal Flush    Online Poker for a Living  Online Poker Cash Games  Multi-Tabling Poker Online  Poker Vibe Writers      Popular Articles:  Online Poker Tells  Poker Expectation  Playing Pocket Pairs  Basic Loose Aggressive LAG Poker Strategy  Basic Tight Aggressive TAG Poker Strategy  Sit N Go Strategy - Part 1: Early Stages  Sit and Go Tournaments - Part 2: Middle Stages  Single Table Tournament Strategy - Part 3 End Game        Translations                              (c) Shirley Rosario  More Poker Tips  Poker Vacations  Poker Journal  Steve Badger                                    PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Beginner's Guide to Seven-Card Stud | Play 7-Card Stud    Share:         1 September 2008  By  Sean Lind               John "World" Hennigan     Related Articles   Stud: Bluffing the Board  25 September 2008      Over the entire history of poker, Limit Seven-Card Stud may be the most-played version of the game in the world.   Before Hold'em became a dominating force in the poker world Stud was the big game all across America. In the post-Hold'em-boom poker world, Stud is becoming rarer and is mostly played by poker's old-timers.  Stud was a big game for decades for a very good reason. It's a wonderful game worth getting into and can make for a great break from the everyday grind of two cards.  This article aims to help beginner players improve their Seven-Card Stud game by playing in a solid, tight and aggressive style. It advocates balancing bluffs and semi-bluffs with mostly solid play and focuses on third-street play because this betting round is the most important.  If you play correctly on third street you will face fewer difficult situations in subsequent betting rounds, because the game quickly becomes very complex as it progresses.   As in all forms of poker there are exceptions to the rules, and the concepts addressed in this article should be understood as general guidelines only.  To be a truly successful player, you must be able to make exceptions and use your judgment in order to determine the best possible play. It is virtually impossible to give clear-cut advice that applies to all situations.  The best general advice, as mentioned in this brief introduction to stud , is a line that you're probably very familiar with.  "You only play premium hands. You only start with jacks or better split, nines or better wired, three high cards to a flush. If it's good enough to call, you got to be in there raising, all right?" - Mike McD from Rounders .  Key Skills to Becoming a Successful Seven-Card Stud Player  Strict hand selection  Discipline (the ability to wait for a good hand and not chase with second-best hands)  Ability to read opponents  Ability to remember the other players' up cards  A Comparison: Seven-Card Stud vs. Texas Hold'em  Here's a list of difference between the two games, some of which are glaringly obvious:  There are no community cards.  An ante and a bring-in bet are used instead of blinds.  There are five betting rounds as compared to four in Hold'em.  The player who has the best starting hand starts the action on every betting round, except for the first round of betting, when the lowest up card begins.  You must remember the folded up cards.  The number of players is limited to a maximum of eight.  There is no positional advantage before the cards are dealt. The cards determine who acts first and last on every betting round.  There is no dealer button, as every hand is dealt in the same order starting at the dealer's immediate left.  Structure and Antes  All players receive two cards dealt face down (hole cards) and one card dealt face up (up card). The cards are dealt one at a time.  The player with the lowest up card has to make a bring-in bet.  The betting continues clockwise with the player to the left of the bring-in bet.  A fourth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A fifth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A sixth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A seventh card is dealt face down. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  All remaining players make out the best possible five-card poker hand.  The following table shows the most common betting structure in Seven-Card Stud:  Limit  Ante  Bring  Opening Bet  $1-$2  $0.25  $0.50  $1  $2-$4  $0.50  $0.75  $2  $3-$6  $0.75  $1.25  $3  $4-$8  $1  $2  $4  $5-$10  $1  $2  $5  $6-$12  $1  $2  $6  $8-$16  $2  $3  $8  $10-$20  $2  $4  $10  $15-$30  $3  $6  $15  $20-$40  $5  $10  $20  $30-$60  $5  $15  $30  $50-$100  $10  $20  $50  $75-$150  $25  $50  $75  $100-$200  $25  $50  $100  Key Advice for Limit Seven-Card Stud  Be very selective with your starting hands: Nothing is more important than choosing the correct starting hand for a certain situation.  Play the players: Assess the opposition quickly: who plays inferior hands, who folds at aggression, who bets with draws, who calls bets with weak hands and long-shot draws, who can be bluffed, who bluffs, etc.  Pump it or dump it: Fold or raise. You should avoid calling unless you have a good reason (like trapping an opponent).  Remember the up cards: Be sure to look at all of your opponents' up cards and remember them. It is very important to know if the hands are "live" (none or few of the key cards are gone) or not. The only way to get good at this is to practice. The more hands you play, the stronger you will get. Sign up to an online poker room , such as Poker Stars, to play as many free hands of Stud as you like.  Raise with your strong draws: Betting on the come is even more valuable in Stud than in Hold'em, depending on which parts of your draw are "up" and which are in the hole, or "down". If you're on sixth street with a four-flush (meaning you have four cards to a suit, only needing one more to make a flush), and three of your suited cards are down, betting on the come is less likely to get a fold than if you have three suited up cards.   Stud lovers.   Common Mistakes in Limit Seven-Card Stud  Playing too many starting hands.  Not paying attention to which cards are out.  Not folding with modest holdings and weak draws.  Not raising with premium holdings, thus letting too many drawing hands in.  Drawing for cards that are likely to give you a second-best hand. For example, calling an opponent who raised showing three to a flush with a straight draw is likely to land you with a losing, second-best hand.  Paying exclusive attention to your own game and not that of your opponents. How many players are in on fourth street? Did someone raise on third street? What types of players are left in the pot? These are all questions to consider during play.  Not being aggressive enough on third street (taking initiative) and fourth and fifth streets (following through/protecting hand).  Calling all the way to the river without proper pot odds.  Calling too often, instead of raising, when you have the best hand.  General Third Street Advice  The most important decisions in Seven-Card Stud are made on third street. You must be able to decide whether or not to play a hand and how to play it.   Some hands play better in multiway pots and some in short-handed pots. The hands that play well in multiway pots are drawing hands, like three-flushes, three-straights and combinations of the two.  The hands that play well in short-handed pots are big pairs.  One of the most valuable skills in Seven-Card Stud is the ability to be very selective about the hands you begin with. The problem with playing too many starting hands is that these mistakes are usually compounded in later betting rounds.  For instance, you might start with nothing and end up drawing to something with a hand you should not have been involved with in the first place. Mistakes like this can prove very costly in the long run.  There are a number of issues that should be taken into account when deciding which hands to play. They are as follows:  Which cards are out?  How many players are in the pot when it is your turn to act?  Is the table tight or loose?  How many players are sitting at the table?  Has the pot been raised? If so, from what player and position?  What is your position in relation to the raiser (if any)?  The most important factors to consider are what cards are out and how many players are in the pot. The combination of these two may sometimes make it correct to throw away the best hand on third street.  For example, in a multiway pot where you hold (J-J)7 and both of the other jacks and one seven are out, you should fold, even though no one has represented a bigger pair or has bigger up cards than a jack.  The chances of you still holding the best hand when all the cards are out are simply too small to justify calling or raising.  You can play this hand when you are in an ante-steal position (it is already short-handed), or in a multiway pot when all your cards are live.  And, while it is imperative that you remember which cards are out on third street, you must not stop there, as it's also crucial that you watch the other cards as they are turned up.  Starting Hands  It is very important to look around and see whether or not your hand is live. Most weak pairs, straight draws, flush draws, etc., are playable when your cards are completely live.   For example, you start with (T ♠ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♦ . This hand is much stronger if all sevens are live, as compared to two of them being out. If all sevens and a jack are out, your hand is almost dead.  The only exception to this concept is when you hold a pair of aces or kings (when no ace is showing), which can be played in most situations even if the hand is almost completely dead.  In order to make it easier when deciding what to look for in your starting hand, here's a list of the best starting hands.  Three of a kind (also called rolled-up trips). Starting with (A-A) A and on down.  The big pairs AA-JJ. The hand is stronger when the pair is hidden, thus making the hand more deceptive to play against. Also, your kicker is important; a (J-J) A is stronger than a (J-J) 2.  The big suited connectors, such as (A ♠ K ♠ ) Q ♠ , (K ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ or (J ♠ T ♠ ) Q ♠ .  The medium pairs TT-88 and medium suited connectors, such as (J ♠ T ♠ ) 9 ♠ , (T ♠ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♠ and (9 ♠ 8 ♠ ) 7 ♠ .  The big suited semi-connectors, such as (A ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ , (K ♠ J ♠ ) T ♠ or (A ♠ K ♠ ) T ♠ .  Mike McD, in the much-quoted Rounders line, talks about having "nines or better wired, jacks or better split." This means having pocket nines or better for your two down cards, and pairs of jacks or better with one of them your show card. He also mentions "three high cards to a flush."  All the aforementioned hands are valuable Stud holdings if played properly. This is a very tight system for starting hands. If you find yourself playing too many hands, it's a great default to revert to.  Stealing Antes  A good way to increase your profits is by stealing the antes. In a regular game, you generally get enough pot odds to show a profit if your steal success is around 40%.   However, your chances do not actually have to be that good because there are times when you will win the pot even though someone called you down.  An example of this would be catching a scare card (usually an ace or a king, or a card that might not help your true hand but connects your show cards, making a straight or a flush possible in your hand) on fourth street. Doing so enables you to win the pot by betting and representing a big hand.  Oftentimes your opponent will fold a small pair on fourth street if you have been the aggressor and if you have higher board cards than his pair.  Another reason to steal the antes is because it adds deception to your overall game. If you only raise with legitimate raising hands, you will never get any action and thus will not win as much as you could.  Anytime you are on a steal, it is important that you consider your opponents' up cards . In general, consider stealing when you hold the highest or second-highest up card.  A good time to steal is when you have the second-highest up card and the highest up card has yet to act. This creates the illusion that you have a legitimate hand since you raised into a higher card.  When trying this move you must always consider what type of player is holding the highest up card. If that player is a good, aggressive player, be more cautious about stealing.  Occasionally, if you suspect another player might be stealing, you should attempt to resteal . A good time to do this is when you hold a bigger up-card than your opponent and your hand has some additional value, like a three-straight or a flush.  Since you were planning to call regardless, you may as well try for a reraise if it seems likely that your opponent is on a steal.  If you are playing in a tight game, you can steal when you are sitting up front holding an ace or king as your up card. This is usually a mistake in a loose game because the chance for a successful steal is much smaller.  In general, you should not try to steal when your up card is duplicated in any of your opponents' hands. Your opponents will know you are less likely to hold the hand you are trying to represent and that you will most likely not improve to that hand if you get played with.  Seven-Card Stud Hand Odds  Hand-Against-Hand  Here are a few computer simulations of interesting hand matchups:  Hand A  Hand B  Dead Cards  Win Percentage  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♦  None  Hand A wins 66.6%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♠  None  Hand A wins 63.9%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 6 ♣  (9 ♣ 9 ♦ ) J ♦  None  Hand A wins 61.4%  (K ♠ K ♣ ) 8 ♥  (Q ♥ Q ♦ ) A ♦  None  Hand A wins 55.8%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  5 ♠ , Q ♠  Hand A wins 72.7%  The Effects of De ad Cards  Below are a number of tables displaying how your chances of making a certain hand change depending on the number of dead cards.  Hand: Three-Flush  Chances of a Flush (%)  0 Dead Cards  23.6%  1 Dead Cards  19.6%  2 Dead Cards  15.8%  3 Dead Cards  12.3%  4 Dead Cards  9.1%  Hand: (5 ♠ 5 ♣ ) A ♦   Chances of Aces Up or Trips (%)  Number of aces and fives out: 0  41.0%  Number of aces and fives out: 1  34.1%  Number of aces and fives out: 2  26.5%  Number of aces and fives out: 3  18.3%  Number of aces and fives out: 4  10.5%    Hand: (6 ♣ 7 ♦ ) 8 ♠ 9 ♥   Chances of a straight (%)  Number of fives and tens out: 0  49.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 1  44.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 2  39.4%  Number of fives and tens out: 3  33.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 4  27.8%   Stud is one of the oldest forms of poker and still a favorite game to many.  Next time you're spreading a home-game, add some stud into your rotation; you'll be glad you did!  View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017                                 Please fill the required fields correctly!  Error saving comment!  You need to wait 3 minutes before posting another comment.      King Reggin 2010-10-25 06:22:07  A horrible article, by a horrible person.    No Comments          Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                                     PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Stud: Bluffing the Board    Share:         25 September 2008  By  Sean Lind               Phil Ivey at the seventh-street showdown.     Related Articles   Beginner's Guide to Seven-Card Stud | Play 7-Card Stud  1 September 2008      Perhaps more than in any other poker variation, bluffing is the keystone of successful Stud play.   To bluff effectively you need to understand how to read the boards. And above all, avoid the dark-tunnel bluff - a bluff made without rhyme or reason.  Typically these bluffs are made on a whim after some arbitrary decision or read. Often players make dark-tunnel bluffs simply because they want to feel like they're actively playing poker rather than two-card roulette.  To make a true bluff, you as a player have to understand the current state of mind of your opponents and their table images, the texture of the board, the betting patterns and the odds (both implied and pot).  Is your opponent a math player on a draw? Are they on steaming-mad gorilla tilt? Are they trapping you? Until you know the answer to these plus 101 more questions, you can't make a true bluff.  The Board: Hold'em Vs. Stud  Reading a Stud board is a very different skill than reading the board in a game such as Hold'em. Hold'em is a complex game due mostly to the simplicity of its design. With a five-card community board, the total combination of possible hands, excluding your two cards, is small and obvious.  Here's a quick example of what I'm talking about:  Hold'em: what beats you?  Board:           Your Hand:     Obviously, the only thing you lose to here is a set. At any point during this hand, flop, turn or river, the story was the same. You had the nuts, second only to a set (which you had a huge redraw against on the turn).  Stud: what beats you?  Hand 1:                Hand 2:               Your Hand:               You have a strong hand - aces-up. So are you good? What can beat you?  Player one shows three to a straight; should you be afraid?  Note the cards he needs to complete a straight:  sevens and jacks are most important  sixes and queens are needed to complete    Howard Lederer playing Stud during the WSOPE H.O.R.S.E event.    Accounted-for cards include two jacks, two queens and one seven. Not to mention all the folded show cards, but being new to the game, you don't remember what any of those are.  Player two is showing a pair of jacks. The only way this player can beat you is to have trips. A jack in the hole or on the river beats you. Again, knowing if any jacks were folded would be very helpful here.  As you can see, reading a board in Stud is a much more intensive, demanding feat than in Hold'em. There's more going on, with each player having their own board. The chances of a misread or of missing what should be a strong read are greatly increased.  Some Numbers  The first thing to know about making a strong bluff in Stud is the odds of players actually having strong hands.  Here are some charts of calculations from MCU. All the following odds calculations are from the brain and pen of Mike Caro.  The Probability of Being Dealt Seven-Stud Starting Hands (First three cards)   The probability that you will be dealt this on the first three cards...  Expressed in % is...  The odds against it are...  Number of possible combos  3-aces 3-jacks through 3-kings 3-sixes through 3-tens 3-twos through 3-fives   0.02 0.05 0.09 0.07    5,524-1 1,841-1 1,104-1 1,380-1    4 12 20 16   2-aces 2-jacks through 2-kings 2-sixes through 2-tens 2-twos through 2-fives   1.30 3.91 6.52 5.21    75.7-1 24.6-1 14.3-1 18.2-1    288 864 1,440 1,152   Three parts of a straight flush Three parts of other flush Three parts of other straight ANY three of a kind ANY Pair   1.16 4.02 17.38 0.24 16.94    85.3-1 23.9-1 4.76-1 424-1 4.90-1    256 888 3,840 52 3,744   The odds against a player having rolled up anything (meaning trips off the deal) are 424-1.  One thing I'd like to point out is that this table can be deceiving to math newbies. You have the exact same odds of being dealt rolled-up fours as you do rolled-up aces. The odds are only 5,524-1 on being dealt any one specific rank.  For the purpose of this article the only worthwhile numbers in this table are the final five. Get a very firm handle on these numbers, as it's important to know how weak the average Stud starting hand typically is.  Some More Numbers  Chance of Improvement for Various Seven-Stud Hands Long Range: (You hold three cards.)   If you have A ♥ A ♦ A ♣ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   0.00*    35,312-1   Four of a kind   8.17    11.2-1   Full house   32.02    2.12-1   Flush   0.70    142-1   Straight   0.24    418-1   Three of a kind   --    --   Two pair   --    --    * Actually 0.0028% If you have A ♣ A ♦ 9 ♥ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   0.00**    23,541-1   Four of a kind   0.54    185-1   Full house   7.57    12.2-1   Flush   0.70    143-1   Straight   0.84    118-1   Three of a kind   9.89    9.11-1   Two pair   42.05    1.38-1    ** Actually 0.0042% If you have T ♣ J ♣ Q ♣ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   1.49    66.2-1   Four of a kind   0.07    1,431-1   Full house   1.50    65.9-1   Flush   16.56    5.04-1   Straight   14.91    5.71-1   Three of a kind   3.19    30.3-1   Two pair   17.33    4.77-1    As you can see from these numbers, the chances of improving are very slim. Once you take into account your cards and other show cards taking away outs, these numbers go down. If you're holding wired nines against the A ♣ A ♦ 9 ♥ , they're now down to catching a running pair, or the case nine, to make two pair. This will impact the percentage of improvement greatly.    Chris "Jesus" Ferguson never forgets a single folded upcard in any pot he's in.    Finally, the Bluffing  What all of this information means to you is that Stud is far more suited to a strong small-ball game than Hold'em. With hands failing to improve past one pair far more often than not in the first four or five streets, players are usually left holding no more than rags and weak draws.  When you do get called, often you're up against a strong draw or combo draw, allowing you to win if they miss. Aggression in the opportune moments is crucial to long-term profit at the game.  The key with Stud bluffing is to truly play the other players, and the other players' hands. You're looking to play off plausibility. If your show cards make it very probable that your hand has theirs beat, it's hard for them to call.  Here are a couple of examples.  Fourth Street  Their Hand:            Your Hand:          In this situation your opponent is, more often than not, sitting on a pair of jacks or less. Assume you completed off the deal, or raised, after your opponent obviously bricking fourth street, it's almost a sure thing that they'll fold to a bet here. Even though you literally have nothing, the fact that you're betting show cards makes it seem probable that you're sitting on a pair of aces at the least.  Sixth Street  Their Hand:              Your Hand:              In this situation you have nothing but a combo draw. Your opponent is showing a pair of kings. There is a very strong chance this player is on a strong two pair, or even trips. You don't believe they have a house (through your knowledge of odds, the cards you've seen folded and your reads in the hand), which means this is the perfect place for a semi-bluff.  Your opponent has no choice but to give you credit for a flush now, or a straight at the least. Almost all players will fold a two pair here, not wanting to draw to four or fewer odds against a made hand. If you do get called, you have a large number of outs to actually hit the hand.  Any Ace  People live in fear of the ace. Hold'em players have come to learn that the majority of players are known to play any ace they're dealt under any circumstances. When a Hold'em-trained player sees an ace as a show card, they almost automatically assume the player is sitting on a pair of aces.  The fear of aces will make players fold anything but a strong draw. A player holding kings will often believe that they have to catch a third king or a second pair to win the hand. Bricks on their board or strong hands (or ones that look strong to you) can almost certainly win you the hand with some aggression.  The same way the flop in Hold'em can make or break any two cards, the show cards in Stud are always more important than the strength of your true hand. Play off the only information your opponents get to see. If you give them a reason to believe they're beat, more often than not they're going to act on it.  If you want to start playing Stud online for free, low or even high stakes, many of the top online poker rooms offer Stud as an option.  More beginner strategy articles:  Beginners Guide to Simple Prop Bets  Ace-King Part 1: The Best Drawing Hand  Ace-Queen Part 1: The Worst Best Hand  View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017               Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                                     PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Limit Seven-Card Stud    Share:         5 December 2005  By  PokerListings.com                     Limit Seven-Card Stud may be the most-played version of poker in the world.   It is far more popular in the U.S.A. than in Europe, although Texas Hold'em is catching up quickly and might have already surpassed Seven-Card Stud as the most popular form of poker. Stud is also a popular tournament game and bigger casinos host a few Seven-Card Stud events every year.  This article aims to help beginners improve their Limit Seven Card Stud game by playing in a solid, tight and aggressive style. It advocates balancing bluffs and semi-bluffs with mostly solid play, and focuses on third street play because this betting round is the most important. If you play correctly on third street you will face fewer difficult situations in subsequent betting rounds, since the game quickly becomes very complex and hard to analyze as it progresses.  Limit Seven Card Stud is a very strategic game, involving a great deal of skill and discipline, and requires players to balance many concepts simultaneously. It is even harder to analyze than Hold'em because of the extra betting round.  As in all forms of poker there are exceptions to the rules, and the concepts addressed in this article should be understood as general guidelines only. To be a truly successful player, you must be able to make exceptions and use judgment in order to determine the best possible play. It is virtually impossible to give clear-cut advice that applies to all situations.  Key skills to becoming a successful Seven-Card Stud player  Strict      hand selection (patience/discipline) Good table      selection (very important in all poker games) Discipline      (the ability to wait for a good hand and not chase with second-best hands) Ability to      read opponents Courage to      bet/raise/call down (aggressive with draws or perceived best hands) Lack of      vulnerability to tilt Ability to      remember the other players' up cards A comparison: Seven-Card Stud vs. Texas Hold'em  The major differences between Seven-Card Stud and Texas Hold'em are that in Seven-Card Stud:  There are      no community cards. An ante      and a bring-in bet are used instead of blinds. There are      five betting rounds as compared to four in Hold'em. The player      who has the best starting hand starts the action on every betting round,      except for the first round of betting, when the lowest up card begins. You must      remember the folded up cards. The number      of players is limited to a maximum of eight. There is      no positional advantage before the cards are dealt. The cards determine      who acts first and last on every betting round. There is a      larger short-term luck factor. This means that the standard deviation is      greater and the game requires a larger bankroll. Structure and antes  All players      receive two cards dealt face down (hole cards) and one card dealt face up      (up card). The cards are dealt one at a time. The      player with the lowest up card has to make a bring-in bet. The      betting continues clockwise with the player to the left of the bring-in      bet. A fourth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A fifth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A sixth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A seventh      card is dealt face down. The action begins with the player holding the      best up cards and continues clockwise. All      remaining players make out the best possible five-card poker hand. The following table shows the most common betting structure in Seven-Card Stud:  Limit Ante Bring-in Bet Opening Bet $1-$2  $0.25  $0.50  $1 $2-$4  $0.50  $0.75  $2 $3-$6  $0.75  $1.25  $3 $4-$8  $1  $2  $4 $5-$10  $1  $2  $5 $6-$12  $1  $2  $6 $8-$16  $2  $3  $8 $10-$20  $2  $4  $10 $15-$30  $3  $6  $15 $20-$40  $5  $10  $20 $30-$60  $5  $15  $30 $50-$100  $10  $20  $50 $75-$150  $25  $50  $75 $100-$200  $25  $50  $100 Key Advice and Common Mistakes  Key advice for Limit Seven-Card Stud  Be very      selective with your starting hands: nothing is more important than      choosing the correct starting hand for a certain situation. Table      selection: only play in games where you have an edge. You want at      least a couple of weak players at the table when you sit down. "Play      the players": make sure to quickly assess the opposition: who      plays inferior hands, who folds at aggression, who bets with draws, who      calls bets with weak hands and long-shot draws, who can be bluffed, who      bluffs, etc. "Pump      it or dump it": fold or bet/raise (if the odds are with you). You      should avoid calling unless you have a good reason (like trapping an      opponent). Remember      the up cards: be sure to look at all of your opponents' up cards and      remember them. It is very important to know if the hands are      "live" (none or few of the key cards are gone) or not. Raise      with your strong draws: whenever you hit a good draw, like a      four-flush on fourth street, always consider raising instead of just      calling. This move can make your opponent lay down the better hand while      you remain on a draw. Common mistakes in Limit Seven-Card Stud  Playing      too many starting hands. Not paying      attention to which cards are out. Not      folding with modest holdings. Not      raising with premium holdings, thus letting too many drawing hands in. Drawing      for cards that are likely to give you a second-best hand. For example,      calling an opponent, who raised holding a king, with a hand like (5-5) J.      Hitting two pair in this scenario could easily make you a second-best      hand. Paying      exclusive attention to your own game and not that of your opponents. How      many players are in on fourth street? Did someone raise on third street?      What types of players are left in the pot? These are all questions to      consider during play. Not being      aggressive enough on third (take initiative), fourth and fifth streets (to      follow through/protect hand). Calling      all the way to the river without proper pot odds. Calling      too often, instead of raising, when you have the best hand. Poor table      selection. Playing on third street  General third street advice  The most important decisions in Seven-Card Stud are made on third street. You must be able to decide whether or not to play a hand and how to play it. Some hands play better in multi-way pots and some in short-handed pots. The hands that play well in multi-way pots are drawing hands, like three-flushes, three-straights and combinations of the two. The hands that play well in short-handed pots are big pairs.  One of the most valuable skills in Seven-Card Stud is the ability to be very selective about the hands you begin with. The problem with playing too many starting hands is that these mistakes are usually compounded in later betting rounds. For instance, you might start with nothing and end up drawing to something with a hand you should not have been involved with in the first place. Mistakes like these can prove very costly in the long run.  There are a number of issues that should be taken into account when deciding which hands to play. They are as follows:  Which      cards are out? How many      players are in the pot when it is your turn to act? Is the      table tight or loose? How many      players are sitting at the table? Has the      pot been raised? If so, from what player and position? What is      your position in relation to the raiser (if any)? The most important factors to consider are what cards are out and how many players are in the pot. The combination of these two may sometimes make it correct to throw away the best hand on third street. For example, in a multi-way pot where you hold (J-J)7 and both of the other jacks and one seven are out, you should fold, even though no one has represented a bigger pair or has bigger up cards than a jack. The chance of you still holding the best hand when all the cards are out is simply too small to justify calling or raising. You can play this hand when you are in an ante steal position (it is already short-handed), or in a multi-way pot when all your cards are live.  And, while it is imperative that you remember which cards are out on third street, you must not stop there, as it is also crucial that you watch the other cards as they are turned up.  Starting Hands  It is very important to look around and see whether or not your hand is live. Most weak pairs, straight draws, flush draws, etc., are playable when your cards are completely live. For example, you start with (T ♣ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♦ . This hand is much stronger if all sevens are live, as compared to two of them being out. If all sevens and a jack are out, your hand is almost dead. The only exception to this concept is when you hold a pair of aces or kings (when no ace is showing), which can be played in most situations even if the hand is almost completely dead.  To make it easier when deciding what to look for in your starting hand, we have compiled the following list of the best starting hands.  Three of a      kind (also called rolled-up trips). Starting with (A-A) A and on down. The big      pairs AA-JJ. The hand is stronger when the pair is hidden, thus making the      hand more deceptive to play against. Also, your kicker is important; a      (J-J) A is stronger than a (J-J) 2. The big-suited      connectors, such as (A ♠ K ♠ ) Q ♠ , (K ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ or (J ♠ T ♠ ) Q ♠ . The medium      pairs TT-88 and medium-suited connectors, such as (J ♠ T ♠ ) 9 ♠ , (T ♠ 9 ♠ )      8 ♠ and (9 ♠ 8 ♠ ) 7 ♠ . The      big-suited semi-connectors, such as (A ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ , (K ♠ J ♠ ) T ♠ or      (A ♠ K ♠ ) T ♠ . The above-mentioned hands are all strong starting hands in Seven-Card Stud.  Stealing antes  A good way to increase your profits is by stealing the antes. In a regular game, you generally get enough pot odds to show a profit if your steal success is around 40%. However, your chances do not actually have to be that good because there are times when you will win the pot even though you got played with. An example of this would be catching a scare card (usually an ace or a king, which happens about 12% of the time) on fourth street, enabling you to win the pot by betting and representing a big pair. Often times your opponent will fold a small pair on fourth street if you have been the aggressor and if you have higher board cards than his pair.  Another reason to steal the antes is because it adds deception to your overall game. If you only raise with legitimate raising hands, you will never get any action and, thus, will not win as much as you could. Any time you are on a steal, it is important that you consider your opponents' up cards. In general, consider stealing when you hold the highest or second-highest up card. A good time to steal is when you have the second-highest up card and the highest up card has yet to act. This creates the illusion that you have a legitimate hand since you raised into a higher card. When trying this move you must always consider what type of player is holding the highest up card. If that player is a good, aggressive player, be more cautious about stealing. Occasionally, if you suspect another player might be stealing, you should attempt to re-steal. A good time to do this is when you hold a bigger up card than your opponent and your hand has some additional value, like a three-straight or flush. Since you were planning to call regardless, you may as well try for a re-raise if it seems likely that your opponent is on a steal.  If you are playing in a tight game, you can steal when you are sitting up front holding an ace or king as your up card. This is usually a mistake in a loose game because the chance for a successful steal is much smaller. In general, you should not try to steal when your up card is duplicated in any of your opponents' hands. Your opponents will know you are less likely to hold the hand you are trying to represent and that you will most likely not improve to that hand if you get played with.  Playing rolled-up trips  On average, you will be dealt rolled-up trips once in every 425 times. This is the strongest holding you can start with, though it does not necessarily mean you should always slow-play the hand. In a loose game, where lots of players give action with a wide variety of hands, slow-playing is almost always incorrect. A good time to slow-play the hand is when you do not want to give your hand away. For example, a king raises and then an ace re-raises. If you then re-raise with something like rolled-up deuces you announce to the table what your holding is. In this case it is better to just smooth-call and reveal your true strength in later betting rounds. An exception would be if you have been making many advertising plays or have frequently re-raised with hands like three-flushes. In these cases, your hand can be played fast from third street onward. When slow-playing your trips, it is usually best to wait until fifth or sixth street before putting in your first raise. Such a decision should be based on what your opponents' likely holdings are, how many players are in the pot and how big the pot is.  Playing big pairs  The big pairs are AA-JJ. These hands should almost always be played. The only times to fold them are when you are fairly certain that you are up against a bigger pair, or when your cards are dead (both of the other cards are already out). A pair of jacks can also be folded when you have a bad kicker to your pair and there are many big cards left to act behind you. Another occasion when it is correct to muck your big pair is when the pot has been raised and re-raised by players with bigger up cards than your pair. For example, you hold a pair of jacks and a king raises only to be re-raised by an ace before it is your turn to act. Remember that a two-flush and/or a two-straight to go with your pair give additional value to the hand. Before folding your big pairs, always consider the action and the opponents giving the action. If one of your opponents pairs their door card, and you don't have a four-flush or a four-straight, it is usually correct to fold your big pair.  Playing small and medium pairs  When deciding whether or not to play the medium pairs, always consider the following factors (the first two are the most important):  If you are      not in a steal position make sure all your cards are live before you      decide to play. Do you      have a strong kicker? What are the      other up cards? Is the      game tight or loose? Your hand      is stronger when your pair is concealed. Holding a      two-flush and/or two-straight gives your pair additional value. You should generally fold your medium pairs in raised pots, unless you have a bigger kicker than the pair the raiser is representing.  When you hold a medium pair and there are no up cards higher than your pair on the board, you should almost always raise with them. If you have a strong kicker to your pair, it holds certain advantages. For example, it allows you to represent a higher pair than what you hold and it increases your chances of ending up with the best two-pair. If the pot is raised and you have a strong kicker, you should call. If the pot has been raised and re-raised, you should generally fold no matter what additional value you hold.  Playing three-flushes  The way you play three-flushes very much depends on four factors:  How high      are your cards? How many      of your cards are live? What is      your up card? What is      your position? These factors greatly affect the way this type of hand should be played. Some three-flushes play better heads-up and some play better in multi-way pots. If all your flush cards are live but none of your pair cards are, then the hand will be played better in multi-way pots. This is because you will most likely need to hit your flush in order to win the pot. This will not happen as often as winning by pairing, so you want to ensure the pot is big enough for those times you hit your flush. Remember, if all your flush cards are live the hand is almost always playable. If you have high up cards, you should almost always raise when you are first in. This strategy also works well with the ante-stealing strategy, as it adds deception to your play.  Playing three-straights  Three-straights are generally not as powerful as three-flushes. Nonetheless, they can still be profitable hands. You must consider the following factors when deciding whether or not to play three-straights:  How high      are your cards? How many      of your cards are live? What is      your up card? Do you      also have a two-flush? What are      the other cards on the board? Who and      how many players are already involved in the pot? How much      will it cost you to play? How well      do your opponents play? Obviously, the more factors working in your favor, the more advisable it is to play the hand.  When the pot has been raised and re-raised, only play three-straights if your cards are live, if you have high cards and/or a two-flush. When you hold smaller unsuited three-straights, such as (7 ♣ 8 ♦ ) 9 ♥ , the most important factor to consider is how live the sixes and tens are. In general, do not play gut-shot three-straights unless you have high cards and/or a two-flush, and your gap card is live. For example, a hand like (Q ♠ J ♣ ) 9 ♦ can be played if no tens are out and it appears that you could win the pot if you paired one of your hole cards.  Hand-against-hand  Here are a few computer simulations of interesting hand match-ups.  Hand A Hand B Dead Cards Win Percentage (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♦  None  Hand A wins 66.6% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♠  None  Hand A wins 63.9% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 6 ♣  (9 ♣ 9 ♦ ) J ♦  None  Hand A wins 61.4% (K ♠ K ♣ ) 8 ♥  (Q ♥ Q ♦ ) A ♦  None  Hand A wins 55.8% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  None  Hand A wins 68.4% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  5 ♠ , Q ♠  Hand A wins 72.7% The effects of dead cards  Below are a number of tables displaying how your chances of making a certain hand change, depending on the number of dead cards.  Hand: Three-Flush Chances for a Flush (%) 0 spades out  23.6% 1 spades out  19.6% 2 spades out  15.8% 3 spades out  12.3% 4 spades out  9.1% Hand: (5 ♠ 5 ♣ ) A ♦ Chances for Aces Up or Three of a Kind   (%)  Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 0  41.0% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 1  34.1% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 2  26.5% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 3  18.3% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 4  10.5% Hand: (6 ♣ 7 ♦ ) 8 ♠ 9 ♥ Chances for a straight (%)  Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 0  49.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 1  44.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 2  39.4% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 3  33.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 4  27.8% View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017                                 Please fill the required fields correctly!  Error saving comment!  You need to wait 3 minutes before posting another comment.      AdvaddyBalt 2012-12-01 23:55:07  This week, excellent buy <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-mens-c-12/>north face mens</a> for feather clothing special to make thematic activities, and launched at the outdoor museum of 80 <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-shoes-c-1/>north face shoes</a> percent this winter – The new north face/Rosi Fiess "ultra slim" down jacket, which can be compressed into a ball of about b hundreds of grams, feather puff up to 800, compressibility, Super, windproof and warm better. It is understood that the shaggy <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-backpacks-c-3/>north face backpacks sale</a> degree is an international measurement down <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/>north face jackets sale</a> on warm and important indicator of the level, higher the fluffy down, warm the better, easier to compress. Shaggy degree in more than 750 is an excellent choice. It is understood <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/>cheap north face jackets</a> that outdoor brands including Columbia/Colombia, The north face/Lok Fiess, launched by the well-known <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-backpacks-c-1/>north face backpacks</a>outdoor <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/>north face outlet</a> cooked food to this thin "chop down", moving big companies like <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-mens-c-9/>cheap north face triclimate</a> also launched a variety of lightweight down jacket this winter. Buy online shoe professional presentations in addition to <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-womens-c-11/>north face coats for sale</a> price, warmth, light, the amount <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-womens-c-23/>cheap north face womens jacket</a> of down-filled, fluffy-have become the primary consideration in down to the acquisition.     Quasibonko 2012-08-30 00:12:13  Agree with some of the comments about the article structure. Good stuff at bottom etc. But, it is good stuff because I read it 1hour before the R2 stud on sunday at stars and cashed in it, having never played stud before... It's a good game actually, but you really need to pay attention!    Jessica 2010-11-30 08:56:34  This is the most useless site I have ever come across. It does not help you understand Stud until half way down.. Wikipedia would have been better.    bogo 2010-08-31 17:57:42  @burn Same for me xD    burn 2010-07-17 13:48:26  I had to read this very quickly, because I just joined a freeroll limit 7 stud. Very odd game for me as I only play NL holdem.    Big John 2010-04-13 08:59:52  Very solid advice, thank you.    No Comments          Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                           April 10th, 2018          Home    Top Sites By Country   US Gambling Sites  UK Gambling Sites  Canadian Gambling Sites  European Gambling Sites     Top Sites By Type   Sports Betting Sites  Casino Sites  Poker Sites  Horse Racing Sites  Daily Fantasy Sports Sites  Bitcoin Gambling Sites     Gambling Site Reviews   Bovada  SportsBetting.ag  BetOnline  Betway  Bet365  Casumo Casino     Sports Betting Guide   Football Betting  Beginner's Guide  Getting Started Online  Sports Betting Essentials  Sports Betting Strategy     Online Casino Guide   Beginner's Guide  Basics of Online Casinos  Casino Games  World Casino Destinations     Online Slots Guide   Slot Games  Slot Machine Strategy  Types of Slots  Slots Software Providers  Best Slots Casinos     Online Poker Guide   Beginner's Guide  Guide to Playing Online  Poker Games  Poker Strategy     Other Gambling Info   Industry News  Gambling Laws  Sites History  Popular Biographies  Real Money Gambling  Esports Betting  Daily Fantasy Sports  Blacklisted Sites  Skill Games  Horse Racing  Virtual Reality Gambling  Online Bingo Guide  State Lottery Guide  Gambling Blog  Free Betting Picks  FAQ              Poker Game Guide: Seven Card Stud    Seven card stud was the most popular form of poker before 
				Texas hold'em burst onto the scene in the early 2000's. Some 
				argue that holdem started taking over for stud in the 1970's, 
				and it did gain in popularity because the main event of the 
				World Series of Poker used Texas hold'em.  But 7 card stud still had a strong following through the 
				1980's and 1990's.  Stud is a strategically challenging game where partial 
				information dictates play. Unlike Texas hold'em or Omaha, in 
				seven card stud there are no community cards except in one rare 
				circumstance which I've covered below and each player will 
				receive seven cards in order to make their best five card poker 
				hand.  On this page you'll find a basic how to play guide and the 
				rules of the game followed by a strategy section. This will arm 
				you with the information you need to hit the felt and start 
				honing your seven card stud skills. As always, when reading a 
				poker guide you can only get so far, and the best way to learn 
				the game and become an expert is by actually playing it.  How to Play – Seven Card Stud Rules  Seven card stud uses standard poker hand ratings with a royal 
				flush being the best hand. The betting rounds are a little bit 
				different from other forms and antes are used instead of blinds. 
				Read on and we'll cover how the game is dealt, antes, bringing 
				in, and the betting rounds and structure.  Hand Rankings  I've outlined some examples for you below to show what hands 
				would beat others and some of the basic hands and associated 
				strengths. Seven card stud uses standard poker hand ratings, 
				listed below from highest to lowest.    Hand  Description  Example    High Card  A hand with no other combination. Valued by it's highest ranked card.       Pair  Two cards of the same rank       2 Pair  Two pairs combined       3 of a Kind  Three cards of the same rank       Straight  Five consecutive cards       Flush  Five cards of the same suit       Full House  A pair and a three of a kind combined       4 of a Kind  Four cards of the same rank       Straight Flush  Five consecutive cards of the same suit       Royal Flush  A straight flush that runs from the 10 to the Ace       To spice it up you can also occasionally find a hi/lo variant 
				of the game which splits the pot with half being awarded to the 
				highest ranked hand and the other half going to the low hand. Hi 
				/ Lo stud is a much more complex game however and we won't go 
				into it in too much detail here.  How the Game is Dealt  Unlike many other forms of poker there is no designated 
				dealer in seven card stud. Play begins with every player 
				entering the pot by wagering an ante. The value of the ante will 
				be determined by the table limits you're playing or by the 
				house. For example if you're playing $10 / $20 limit seven card 
				stud, the ante could be $1.  After each player has placed their ante in the pot the 
				dealing will begin with each player receiving three cards. The 
				first two of these cards will be dealt face down and are known 
				as the hole cards, with the third card being face up and called 
				the door card.   Betting Rounds  To start the initial betting, one player will make a bring in 
				bet. Using the above limits, the bring in could be $5. The 
				player who brings in is determined by the door cards, with the 
				lowest ranked card bringing in.  This player also has the option to complete, which would be a 
				$10 bet and is considered the first raise. In a limit game a 
				complete bet is equal to the lower limit and the bring in is 
				usually half the low limit.  From here the play continues clock wise around the table, 
				where remaining players have the following options.   Fold  Call  Raise   If the initial player only brings in for $5, then other 
				players can complete for $10 and this is considered the first 
				raise.  Once every player has had the chance to act, remaining 
				players are dealt a fourth card which is called the 4th street 
				card. As we don't have a dealer button to determine who acts 
				first, in seven card stud the player displaying the highest 
				ranking hand with their two face up cards acts first, and this 
				continues on the remaining streets.  At this time there is another round of betting, followed by 
				the 5th street, which is dealt face up and followed by a round 
				of betting. A sixth card is dealt face up with another round of 
				betting at this point. Finally 7th street, which is the players 
				7th card, is dealt face down. From here there is a final round 
				of betting and a show down where players expose their best five 
				card poker hand and the highest ranked hand wins.  Seven card stud is usually a fixed limit game. Using the 
				above limits of $10 / $20, this means on the 3rd and 4th street 
				the limit for each bet is $10, and on the 5th, 6th, and 7th 
				streets it is $20. The game has one exception to this betting 
				rule, If a player has a pair on the face up cards on the 4th 
				street they may bet double the limit, which would be $20 in our 
				example.  Running Out of Cards  It's possible to run out of cards in seven card stud. If 
				there are still 8 players remaining when the 7th street is due, 
				the dealer will place the last card in the middle of the table 
				and this will act as a community card for all players to use.  Seven Card Stud Strategy  Becoming a winning seven card stud player requires many of 
				the same skills needed to win playing Texas hold'em or Omaha.  Though stud isn't as popular as it was at one time, you can 
				still find games available in larger poker rooms and online. 
				Because most of the best players have moved over to playing 
				Texas hold'em there's a great deal of opportunity for smart 
				players to profit at the stud tables.  In this section of our game guide you'll learn the basic 
				strategy you need in order to become a break even player. You'll 
				then learn the advanced tactics used to start making a long term 
				profit. There's also some strategy advice for the hi lo version 
				of the game.  To start with, we've provided a few words on hand strength.  Hand Strength  Hand strength in seven card stud is a lot different than in 
				Texas hold'em. It's probably closer to Omaha. While a simple 
				high pair in Texas hold'em, such as , will often win the 
				pot in that game, in seven card stud a pair is not a strong hand 
				and often one or more players will be showing a pair on their 
				3rd, 4th, 5th, or 6th street. Often three of a kind or stronger 
				will be required to win at show down in seven card stud.  The best possible starting hand in seven card stud is 'rolled 
				up' aces (for example  ). This is where you're dealt 
				two aces face down and one face up. This is an extremely strong 
				hand and you have a very low chance of losing with this. If you 
				get any card rolled up you're in a very good position.  Basic Strategy  Remembering the Cards  The first step to becoming a winning long term seven card 
				stud player is remembering every card that's been played. You 
				can see the up cards for all of the players still in the hand 
				but when a player folds, her hand is no longer visible.  At first most players find it difficult to remember every 
				card they've seen, so we've put together a series of tips that 
				will help you to take advantage of all of the available 
				information on every hand.  Tip #1  You don't technically need to remember every single card 
				you've seen. The only ones that you must remember are the ones 
				that have something to do with your current hand. The issue is 
				that with your first three cards almost any card can come into 
				play later in the hand.  The only cards that can be safely ignored are when you have 
				three low cards, when you hold three high cards, or when you 
				have a set. With three low cards you can ignore face cards, but 
				don't ignore the aces because they can be used to make a five 
				high straight. If you have three high cards without an ace you 
				can ignore low cards.  When you have a set you can ignore just about any other 
				cards, but you may need to know the values of folded cards to 
				determine your possibilities of making a full house later in the 
				hand.   Tip #2  Ignore suits when your first three cards are three different 
				suits. Knowing the suits that have been played can help you 
				determine the odds an opponent has a flush late in the hand but 
				it won't come into play often. You still need to remember the 
				rank of the cards to see how they change your odds later in the 
				hand.   Tip #3  When two of your first three cards are the same suit, their 
				suit is the only one you need to track. The odds of drawing a 
				flush with only two out of your first three cards are suited is 
				low, but it does happen from time to time.   Tip #4  You can train your brain to remember every card that's been 
				revealed every hand. Start by tracking the cards, including your 
				own, in hands where you fold. You won't have the added pressure 
				of making playing decisions so it's the best way to start.  Work on this on every hand until you have it down perfect. It 
				doesn't matter if this takes weeks or months, as long as you 
				keep making progress.  As you should fold most of your hands you'll quickly get a 
				great deal of practice. Don't get discouraged, because you won't 
				be able to memorize all the cards right away. But it's a learned 
				skill so in time your brain will start remembering.  Once you're able to remember all of the cards folded when you 
				aren't involved in the hand focus on just the first up card for 
				every hand when you're still in the hand. When you have that 
				mastered it's only a short step until you're remembering all of 
				the folded cards.   Starting Hand Selection  The next basic strategy area you need to consider if you hope 
				to be a winning player is starting hand selection. Your starting 
				hand selection depends somewhat on your opponent's up cards, but 
				some hands should never be played and some should always be 
				played.  As we've already mentioned, the best starting hands are three 
				of a kind (called rolled up) followed by three high suited 
				cards, pairs, three high unsuited cards, and other three card 
				hands that work together in some way.  Just like in most forms of poker, the player who enters the 
				hand with the best starting cards wins a higher percentage of 
				the time than her opponents.  Your starting hand in any single game is a matter of chance 
				based on the randomness of the shuffle, but over time you'll 
				receive the same collection of starting hands as everyone else 
				who plays 7 card stud.  What this means is you have to fold hands that don't have a 
				chance to turn a long term profit as quickly as possible.  Hands without flush or straight possibilities, ones with 
				three cards that don't work together in any way like  , 
				and low hands with no pair are examples of poor hands that 
				should be folded as quickly as possible.  You also need to watch out for trap hands. Starting hands 
				with medium and low pairs are playable in most games but if they 
				don't improve they rarely hold up. One of the keys is 
				determining when to get out of the hand and when you should keep 
				drawing hoping to hit a three of a kind or two pair.  Pot Control  One of the biggest weapons you have is the ability to 
				influence the size of the pot. It might not seem like you have 
				much control because when you're drawing to a better hand all 
				you can do is check and call and when you have a big hand all 
				you can do is bet and raise, but both of these actions is a form 
				of controlling the pot size.  You want to put as much money in the pot as possible when 
				you're the favorite and as little as possible when you're not.  The challenge in most hands is figuring out when you're the 
				favorite and when you aren't. In the situations we just 
				mentioned it's easy. If you're drawing to a straight or flush 
				you're behind in the hand so in most cases you don't want to 
				build the pot until you hit your hand. If you have three of a 
				kind or better you'll want to build the pot until it's clear an 
				opponent has a strong hand.  But what do you do when you have a middle to high pair or 
				even two pair against an opponent who shows a pair?  It depends on your opponents, how they're playing the hand, 
				and the cards you see around the table.  The important thing is always be aware of the pot size and 
				know whether you want it to be bigger or smaller.  In limit seven card stud this is important, but if you play 
				pot limit it can be the difference between winning and losing a 
				great deal of money.  The size of the pot can quickly climb in a pot limit game so 
				you don't want to get stuck drawing to a weak or second best 
				hand in a big pot. Keep the pots as low as possible when you're 
				drawing and build them when you're the favorite.  Outs & Pot Odds  When you play Omaha or Texas hold'em determining the number 
				of outs is fairly easy to do. You always start with the same 
				number of cards and the same number of known cards are available 
				in each stage of the hand. After the flop you know the values of 
				your cards and the three community cards, and you know one more 
				card value after the turn.  But when you're playing seven card stud the number of known 
				cards changes all the time.  It's still a straight forward calculation, but you have to 
				pay attention and use the skills for memorizing the cards that 
				have already been played that we covered above.  Imagine the following example.    You're 
				playing with six other players and start with three hearts.  In addition 
				to your three cards you know the values of six other cards.  You know 
				the deck holds a total of 13 hearts and you hold three of them.  You 
				therefore know that that ten hearts remain in the deck.  If one 
				opponent has a heart showing there are now nine hearts 
				remaining.  Four of 
				your opponents fold, leaving three of you in the pot.  On the 
				fourth card you and one of your remaining opponents both receive 
				a heart.  Now you 
				have four hearts and two have been dealt to other players.  You have 
				seven outs to make your flush on the last three cards you'll 
				receive.    At this point it's important to note that you shouldn't make 
				the mistake of thinking that all of your opponents have been 
				dealt cards you can't see and some of the hearts are probably 
				among those cards. While it's true that some of the hearts are 
				probably out of play, the only information you can act on is how 
				many cards you get to see. Every other card is unknown.  In the example, you have seen your four cards, one card of 
				four of your opponent's and two cards of two of your opponent's. 
				This is a total of 12 cards, so you haven't seen the value of 40 
				cards. You have 7 out of 40 cards to complete your flush on the 
				next card dealt. Let's continue with the rest of this 
				hypothetical hand.    The fifth 
				card is dealt and no hearts are dealt on the round.  You still 
				have seven outs, but now they are out of 37 unseen cards.  The sixth 
				card is dealt and one of your opponents receives a heart.  Now you 
				have six outs for the final card out of 34 unseen cards.  To make a 
				happy ending, you receive your fifth heart as your final card.    As you can see from this example, your number of outs, and 
				unseen cards, change throughout the hand.  Don't panic because you don't think you'll ever be able to 
				figure all of this out while participating in a hand.  While some of the best players can figure exact percentages 
				and odds on the fly, most of us can't do it perfectly. The good 
				news is you don't have to do it perfectly. You just have to get 
				it close enough to make the right decision.  In the example above, you'll almost always be correct to stay 
				in the hand because when you hit your flush, even though it 
				won't happen as often as you miss, you'll win enough to make up 
				for the times when you don't hit it.  That's the magic statement that winning seven card stud 
				players understand and losing one's don't.  The secret of long term profitability in any form of poker is 
				putting yourself in situations where you'll win more in the long 
				run than you'll lose and escaping from situations where you'll 
				lose more than you win in the long run.  A big part of this is determining how many outs you have and 
				comparing it to the amount you can win when you hit your hand.  Most hands aren't as easy as the flush example, because you 
				have different ways of winning the hand. Though we didn't spell 
				it out, the assumption with the flush example is if you don't 
				hit the flush you lose the hand. But the truth is if one or more 
				of the non-suited cards got paired with one or more of your 
				hearts you could possibly win the hand without hitting the 
				flush. It won't happen often, but it does happen sometimes.  Instead of hitting your flush on the last card let's say you 
				paired your highest card and neither of your opponents show a 
				hand that can beat it. The odds of you winning the pot at this 
				point are small, but in a limit game if you only have to call a 
				single bet you almost always have to call in this situation.  Here's why.  Let's say at this point the pot has $200 and you have to call 
				a $10 bet to find out who won. This means that you only have to 
				win the hand one out of 20 times to break even. Even if you lose 
				the hand 19 times you'll break even in the long run if you win 
				once. If you win two times out of 20 you'll turn a profit in the 
				long run making this call.  Do you think you can win 5% of the time in this situation? We 
				can almost guarantee you'll win at least 5% of the time.  What if the pot only has $150 or $100?  This is where it gets a little tricky, but you still need to 
				try to guess your overall chances of winning and compare it to 
				the amount in the pot.  If you think you can win the hand one out of 15 times or more 
				you need to call if the pot has $150. If the pot has $100 you 
				need to determine if you can win one out of 10 times or more.  Every decision you make while playing 7 card stud can be 
				boiled down to the same type of mathematical decision. It's not 
				easy because you don't know exactly what your opponent holds and 
				you don't know your true chances of winning, but as you gain 
				experience you can get a good idea of the possibilities and make 
				an educated guess.  Table Selection  One of the easiest ways to improve your overall results while 
				playing 7 card stud is playing with opponents who aren't as good 
				as you at the game. We know it sounds simple, but most stud 
				players don't even consider the competition before joining a 
				game. It's common for only one or two tables to be active so 
				players just sit down at the first available seat and start 
				playing.  If you want to win as much money as possible playing poker 
				you need to find every advantage possible. If you can't find 
				games filled with weaker players than you why don't you try to 
				create a game? Of course you'll continue working on improving 
				your abilities, but spend some time trying to recruit players 
				you can beat.  You might ask why weaker players would join a game, but it's 
				no different than players taking the first available seat at an 
				open table. Some of the world's best backgammon players travel 
				all over to play rich and powerful opponents. These opponents 
				usually know they aren't as good as the pro, but they want to 
				play against the best and are willing to pay in the form of 
				their losses over time in order to do so.  Poker and backgammon have some things in common, including 
				the chance that a poor player will beat a good one on any given 
				day. The feeling of accomplishment when a poor player beats a 
				better player can be significant and make the long term losses 
				worth it to the lesser player.  The point we're trying to make is you won't know if the worst 
				poker player you know will play in your game unless you ask. 
				Just remember to treat them well even when they do get lucky and 
				beat you every once in a while. You don't want to run them off.  Finding or creating games filled with players who aren't as 
				good as you is a powerful enough strategy that if you don't 
				follow any of the other advice on this page except this you can 
				go from a losing player to a winning one.  How much do you think you could win if everyone started with 
				$1,000 and you started playing against five first time players? 
				More often than not you'd win $5,000.  What if instead of playing against five players who haven't 
				played before you play against the best five seven card stud 
				players in the world? More often than not you'd lose your 
				$1,000.  We don't know how to make it any more clear than that, but 
				over 90% of the people who read this advice won't act on it. 
				Make sure you're in the 10% and your bankroll will thank you in 
				the long run.  Intermediate and Advanced Play  We've combined the intermediate and advanced seven card stud 
				sections because once you master the basic strategy items 
				covered above you'll be well on your way to being a winning 
				overall player. Everything else works to improve your overall 
				play and profitability, so the line between intermediate an 
				advanced is blurred at best.  Once you learn which hands you can play and which ones you 
				need to fold early in the hand, the next thing that changes your 
				long term profit is how you play on the fourth through the 
				seventh cards.  You need to continue using what you learned above about how 
				to determine your outs and comparing your chances to win against 
				the amount in the pot and apply it to each round of betting 
				action.  It's easy to write about doing this, but in reality it takes 
				a great deal of practice and experience to improve. Even the 
				best players make mistakes, but the key is getting it right more 
				often than getting it wrong.  The next two areas, reading your opponents and mindset, will 
				both help you improve your advanced playing tactics.  Reading Opponents  Most poker players instantly think about tells when they see 
				or hear something about reading their opponents, but in truth 
				you can learn a great deal about the strength of an opponent's 
				hand by the way they bet and act throughout a hand.  Compare their actions with the cards showing in their hand 
				and around the table and when they start betting and raising and 
				/ or when they check and call.  You also need to know as much about their overall playing 
				tendencies as you can. The only way to learn about your 
				opponents is to watch them play and remember every time they 
				play a hand or difficult situation. Most low limit players tend 
				to play too many hands and bluff too much, so if a player has 
				these tendencies you can use this information when you need to 
				make decisions.   Here's an example:  In the situation we discussed above about calling a $10 bet 
				on the river with $200, $150, or $100 in the pot, if you knew 
				for a fact that the lead bettor on the river had a tendency to 
				bluff too often you'd call the bet with only $100 in the pot, 
				because the odds are he missed his draw and you'll win more than 
				one out of 10 times.   Though this is an advanced play beyond the scope of this 
				page, it might even be correct to raise in this situation if it 
				can get the third player in the hand to fold a better hand than 
				yours. The math on this decision is extensive and the truth is 
				you only make the play if you know the playing tendencies of 
				both your opponents well, but a raise can have a positive 
				expected long term value in some situations.  Most players will never reach the point where they even 
				realize a raise may be the best play, so when you start thinking 
				about the game at this level you're probably beyond the scope of 
				this page.  This leads to the subject of your mindset.  Your Mindset  The best poker players in any form of poker are not the ones 
				with the best natural abilities. The best poker players are the 
				ones that work at making themselves the best player they can be 
				and work endlessly on putting themselves in positions where they 
				win more than they lose in the long run.  This all starts with your mindset.  If you aren't willing to work hard and do whatever it takes 
				to be a profitable long term seven card stud player there isn't 
				much we or anyone else can do to help you. It's acceptable if 
				you just want to play for fun and aren't interested in working 
				at getting better, but don't say you want to be a winning player 
				if you don't do anything you need to do in order to improve.  Learning and using everything on this page is a great start. 
				The next step is start playing as much as you can and pay 
				attention while you're playing. With time, dedication, and 
				experience you can be a winning player.  Hi Lo Strategy  This page is mostly about the high only version of seven card 
				stud because it's by far the most common form of the game found 
				in poker rooms, but we wanted to touch on a few things.  The same general ideas for strategy pertain to 7 card stud 
				high lo as the ones used on Omaha hi lo, so it's a good idea to read 
				the strategy section on that page as well .  All high low split pot games have their long term 
				profitability based on the ability to scoop pots and win at 
				least three quarters of pots where the low or high is split 
				again.  In order to scoop pots you either have to win both the high 
				and low half of the pot or win the high half when no low hand 
				qualifies.  Low starting hands that offer straight and / or flush 
				possibilities are valuable. Starting hands with a pair and two 
				low cards also offer some possibilities, but every starting low 
				hand will have to improve in order to win part of the pot. You 
				only have a total of seven cards to work with, so you won't see 
				as many low hands qualify as you do in Omaha 8.  While most seven card stud high low games have an 8 qualifier 
				like Omaha high lo, don't make the mistake of assuming this is 
				the case. Always check the rules so you know for sure what 
				qualifies as a low hand and what doesn't.  One of the fastest ways to lose money playing seven card stud 
				high lo is to play low only draws. A starting hand of 2, 3, 4 
				looks great but you still need two more cards 8 or lower that 
				don't match your current cards to qualify for a low. It does 
				happen, but chasing a low hand when the pot has a great deal of 
				betting and raising will lose money in the long run.  Not only are you drawing to a fairly long shot hand, you're 
				almost always only drawing to half the pot. Of course you 
				probably want to see the fourth and fifth cards if possible with 
				a hand like this to see if a straight draw materializes, but if 
				you haven't improved on the fifth card you probably need to fold 
				to any bet.   Summary  It should come as no surprise that seven card stud was once 
				the most popular form of poker. It's a great game which gives 
				partial information to players and forces some great action.  The game is very easy to pick up and can be easily played by 
				beginners after just a few hands. It's a great entry level poker 
				game or an alternative for those that have been focusing on 
				Texas hold'em and want to expand their poker repertoire. The hi 
				/ lo variant of seven card stud is also fun, but a little more 
				complex so it might be a good idea to hone your skills at 
				standard seven card stud before moving on to the split pot 
				variety.  Simply follow the strategy advice on this page and not only 
				will you have a great time playing seven card stud, you'll also 
				have a great chance to win a little money along the way.      Article Details   Author: Brad Johnson Updated: October 2015     Related Poker Articles    Poker Beginner's Guide  Popular Poker Games  Best Online Poker Sites  Poker Terms  Texas Hold'em Guide      Latest Poker News    2018 WSOP to Have Eight Big Blind Ante Bracelet Events  Weekly Poker Roundup: April 9, 2018  Nevada AG Adam Laxalt, an Online Poker Opponent, to Run for Governor  Weekly Poker Roundup: March 12, 2018  Weekly Poker Roundup: March 5, 2018                 Home | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | Sitemap | Get Help  Copyright © 2018 GamblingSites.org. All Right Reserved.                            Home  Contact  Blog  Places to Play  Links  Site Map      Reasons to Play Stud High-Low  How to Play Stud High-Low  Unique Features of Stud High-Low  Terminology for Seven-Card Stud High-Low  Starting Hand Probabilities in Seven-Card Stud  Starting Hands for Seven-Card Stud High-Low     Starting Hand Categories for: Seven-Card Stud and Seven-Card Stud High-Low Eight or Better (Stud-Eight) Poker   The following terminology is useful for discussing starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low poker. The table below defines 12 types of starting hands along with a description and an example of each.   Descriptions and Examples for 12 Types of Three-Card Starting Hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low Poker    Starting Hand  Description  Example      Low connected-suited  Three sequential cards of the same suit with no card higher than an 8  3 4 5    Trips  Three cards of the same rank  9 9 9    Aces with a low kicker  Two Aces with a third card no higher than an 8  A A 2    Aces with a high kicker  Two Aces with a third card  higher than an 8  A A 9    Ace with two wheel cards  An Ace with two unconnected cards no higher than a 5  A 4 5   Low suited  Three cards of the same suit with no card higher than an 8  A 5 6   Low connected  Three sequential cards with no card higher than an 8  5 6 7    High pair  Two cards ranked 9 or higher with a third unmatched card  K K 7    Low pair with a low kicker  Two cards ranked 8 or lower with an unmatched card ranked 8 or lower  5 5 7    Flush with high cards  Three  cards of the same suit with one or more ranked higher than an 8  Q 6 7    Low pair with a high kicker  Two cards ranked 8 or lower with an unmatched card ranked 9 or higher  5 5 K    Low cards  Three cards not connected, suited or paired with no card higher than an 8  7 6 2     The twelve types of starting hands can be sorted into five broad categories that describe how they play. The categories of hands are: premium , big-possibility , one-way , situational and trap . The reasons for sorting the hands this way and the probabilities for each group are given.  Premium Starting Hands  The premium hands can often scoop pots without improvement. All total these starting cards are just 1% of all hands dealt. They should be played aggressively.  Trips. [Number of hands = 13, Number of combinations =52, Frequency = 0.24%, Odds = 424:1] Any rank is a powerful holding, however, low cards have the advantage of still allowing a low hand to form. Rolled trip Kings will never qualify for low. Another advantage of low rolled trips is that they are a powerful high hand that often looks like a low. In those cases the hand will generate lots of action from a player who believes incorrectly that he or she has a better high.  Aces with a low kicker. [Number of hands = 14, Number of combinations =168, Frequency = 0.76 %, Odds = 131:1] The lower the kicker the better this hand plays. Often the Aces will hold up for high unimproved or pick up a second pair to make Aces up to best two smaller pair. At the same time the hand can back into low to either scoop or save half the pot if the Aces do not hold up for high.   Probabilities and odds for premium starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Trips  13  52  0.24  424:1    Aces with a low kicker  14  168  0.76  131:1   Totals  27  220  1.00  99:1     Big-possibility Starting Hands  The hands in this group win the monster pots in Stud-Eight. However these hands need to improve because they are worth nothing on their own. The hands in this group can be played aggressively early on. These are rare holdings but don’t fall in love with them. If there is no improvement and a lot of action on later streets the hand should be mucked.  Low connected-suited. [Number of hands = 6, Number of combinations =24, Frequency = 0.11%, Odds = 920:1] This is one of the most powerful hands in Stud-Eight because it can scoop the entire pot in so many different ways while generating lots of action from players betting on both halves of the pot.  Low suited. [Number of hands = 50, Number of combinations =200, Frequency = 0.90%, Odds = 110:1] If an Ace is included the hand has added value. This is a good hand for jamming other players. Sometimes the hand will complete a flush for high, sometimes miss the flush but hold up for low and occasionally make high and low. Either way you can bet aggressively if this hand improves to a high or low on Fifth Street and make the others pay for your draw to the other half of the pot.  Low connected. [Number of hands = 24, Number of combinations =360, Frequency = 1.36%, Odds = 60:1] Does not have the flush possibility but low straights often scoop. A good hand for freerolling if two low cards are picked up that don’t connect. A player with a made low and an inside straight draw can jam two high hands and be assured of winning half the pot, while at the same time retaining an outside chance of a scoop.   Probabilities and odds for big-possibility starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Low connected-suited  6  24  0.11  920:1    Low suited  50  200  0.90  110:1    Low connected  24  360  1.63  131:1   Totals  80  584  2.64  37:1     One-way Starting Hands  These starting cards typically compete for one half of the pot and are good for cases where everyone is competing for the same half of the pot. There are hands in Stud-Eight where all the players are competing for either the high half or low half of the pot. In those circumstances playing a “one-way” hand that figures to be best against the competition but can also back into the other half of the pot is a viable strategy.  Aces with a high kicker. [Number of hands = 10, Number of combinations =120, Frequency = 0.54%, Odds = 183:1] This hand usually competes for high only and it is best played against other players vying for high when it can scoop. It does poorly against multiple low draws because in that situation its only potential is for half the pot and the low draws can freeroll on later streets placing a made hand as strong as Aces-up in an uncomfortable position. This hand is most powerful when the Aces are wired because it will generate action from smaller pairs thinking that they have the best high.  Ace with two other wheel cards. [Number of hands = 20, Number of combinations =300, Frequency = 1.36%, Odds = 73:1] This hand usually competes for low only but it does have high possibilities. How well it plays often depends on where the Ace is. In most cases you want the Ace exposed so that you can threaten people with a potential pair of Aces or a potential low. That way if you pick up bricks you might win uncontested if your opponents also pick up bricks. If your opponents are weak on Fifth Street, betting an exposed A, 2, J has more fold equity than an exposed 2, 3, J.   Probabilities and odds for one-way starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Aces with a high kicker  10  120  0.54  183:1    Ace with two wheel cards  20  300  1.36  73:1    Totals  30  420  1.90  52:1     Situational Starting Hands  Many Stud-Eight players automatically play the hands in this group. However, the viability of these hands depends highly on the situation. You should be very careful about when and how you play these hands.  High pairs 99, 10-10, JJ, QQ and KK. [Number of hands = 120, Number of combinations =1440, Frequency = 6.54%, Odds = 14:1] How well you play pairs will determine much of your profit in Stud-Eight. Automatically playing any pair as many players do will lead to disaster. As a general rule 99 and 10-10 should not be played. Paired face cards are only playable if they are the high hand on the board. You do not want to hold JJ in between a player with KK and another player with a low. The most likely outcome is that your two opponents will be dividing up your money.  Low pairs with a low kicker. [Number of hands = 98, Number of combinations =1176, Frequency = 5.32%, Odds = 18:1]  These are  starting hands that many Stud-Eight players will automatically play. However, as attractive these hands look, they come with a lot of problems. It is a poor start for a low hand because it has only two cards that count towards low and a poor start for a high hand because the pair is ranked so low. In other words, it is a mediocre holding to compete for either half of the pot, which means that often it will come away with nothing. Of the hands in this category, a low pair with a live Ace kicker is the most valuable because it has an outside chance of making Aces up. These hands are good for stealing antes and good for defending bring-ins against a steal. They play best heads-up against weak low draws. However, against players you know have strong holdings or against a large field these hands should not be played.  Three suited cards, one or more not low. [Number of hands = 230, Number of combinations = 920, Frequency = 4.16%, Odds = 23:1]  If the suit is completely live and it is up against other high hands these starting cards have some possibilities. If the cards are connected and suited the holding is more valuable and the hand is almost playable against low draws. However, for unconnected cards, completing a flush is rare and in situations where a flush only claims half the pot you rarely have the pot odds necessary to play. As a general rule three-flushes with high cards play much worse in Stud-Eight than in Seven-Card Stud and should usually be avoided.   Probabilities and odds for situational starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      High pair  120  1440  6.52  14:1    Low pair with a low kicker  98  1176  5.32  18:1    Suited with high cards  230  920  4.16  23:1   Totals  448  3536  17.38  5:1     Trap Starting Hands  These are attractive looking hands that play poorly and should usually be mucked. Playing hands like these for half the pot is rarely worth the investment.  Low pair with a high kicker. Hands such as 3, 3, J or 5, 5, K, have little value and in most cases should be mucked. The exceptions would be stealing antes or defending against a steal.  Three low cards (unconnected and unsuited). [Number of hands = 180, Number of combinations =2700, Frequency = 12.22%, Odds = 7.2:1] The “Razz” hands should be saved for Razz. These kinds of hands are only good for half the pot and in most cases the best you can hope for is to get your money back minus the rake. Many Stud-Eight players automatically call with these hands and stay to the end if they pick up a low draw on Fourth Street. The problem is that often if they hit low it is second best low. Just as you want to avoid playing the second best high hand, it is even more important to avoid playing the second best low hand. The high hand scoops if no one qualifies for low but a busted low is worth nothing.   Probabilities and odds for trap starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Low pair with a high kicker  70  840  3.80  25:1    Low cards  180  2700  12.22  7.2:1    Totals  250  3540  16.02  5.2:1     Final note: Three connected cards, one or more not low such as 8, 9, 10 or 9, 10, J play poorly in Stud-Eight and should be mucked.   ©Copyright 2009 by Intelligent Games Publishing - All rights reserved.No portions of these pages maybe reposted, or distributed without written consent of the publisher. For inquiries on use of any material contact: service@intelligent-games.com PLEASE NOTE: The material at this Website is for informational purposes only. In no manner should this Website be construed to offer legal advice on the issue of online gambling. It is the reader’s responsibility to know and follow the laws that apply in his or her state and jurisdiction. Seek appropriate legal advice from a qualified attorney if unsure. The publisher of this site does not endorse or guarantee any of the services described. The reader assumes all risks and responsibility for his or her actions. If you do not agree with these conditions, please exit the site immediately.              Toggle navigation        Home  Poker   Hand Ranking   Types of Odds   Mathematics   WSOP’s Youngest Poker Winner  Using Casino Bonuses   How to get started in poker   Poker Tournaments   Playing Online Casino games  How to Play Poker?   Improve your poker skills   Top 5 mistakes made by beginners at No Limit Hold’em poker   Can you make money from no deposit bonuses  Choosing the best online casinos  New casinos and the rate at which they're entering the UK market  Which bonus do you choose  Keeping Your Cool  Foreign language casinos   Popular Poker Variants Compared: 3-Card Poker and 7-Card Stud  What is Casino Poker and Why do we Care  What are the main Poker Personalities  Keeping Your Cool  The best poker players come around at live events  Links   Overview   All links   B&M Poker   Gambling Directories   Casino Reviews   Online Casinos   Other Games   Other Languages   News & Forums   Poker Room reviews   Poker Rooms   Poker Strategy   Poker Supplies   Sports Book       High Hands   Stats and Odds   Stats and Odds (details)   Evaluate Hand   7 Card Evaluation     Low Hands   Stats and Odds   Stats and Odds (details)   Evaluate
                                    Hand   7 Card Evaluation     Texas Hold'em   Starting Hands   Analyze Flop   Starting Hand Table   Brief History     Seven Card Stud   Starting Hands  Starting Hands (details)  Analyze 5th Street     Omaha   Starting Hands   Starting Hands (details)   Hand Evaluation   Hand Evaluation High Low           rolled-up   all hands  rolled-up         Seven Card Stud Odds and Ranking for Rolled Up  Number of Hands: 52 of 22.100 Odds: 424/1  Different Ranks: 13         category  number  odds  distrib  chance  totaled     Aces   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,02%     Kings   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,04%     Queens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,05%     Jacks   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,07%     Tens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,09%     Nines   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,11%     Eights   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,13%     Sevens   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,14%     Sixes   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,16%     Fives   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,18%     Fours   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,20%     Threes   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,22%     Deuces   4  5.524/1  7,69%  0,02%  0,24%        Examples for Rolled Up Strong Hand:   rolled up, aces Show fifth street results Bad Hand:   rolled up, deuces Show fifth street results        Notes On top you see Seven Card Stud hand odds for Rolled Up . The category Rolled Up is broken up into the following 13 groups: Aces, Kings, Queens, Jacks, Tens, Nines, Eights, Sevens, Sixes, Fives, Fours, Threes and Deuces For more information about the numbers displayed, please read the Seven Card Stud notes .          2009 - 2017 © poker-base.com All Rights Reserved.    Email: info@poker-base.com                          Online Poker  Mobile Poker  US Poker Sites  Poker Reviews  Poker  Bonus  Mac Poker Sites  Poker Games  Poker Strategy  Poker News  Deposit           Online Poker > Stud
Poker  Strategy > Seven Card Stud Odds   Seven Card Stud Odds   Odds of Being Dealt and Completing
                                        Certain Hands in 7 Card Stud  Seven Card Stud is fairly easy to learn but at the same
		                  time, the combinations of hands are notably higher than
		                  that of Holdem or Omaha. Based on the probability of the
		                  number of outcomes available with each player holding seven
		                  cards, you want to ensure that you play your hand with the
		                  highest chance of hitting and holding the strongest hand.
		                  You also want to make sure that when you do play a hand,
		                  your hand isn’t so common that it becomes easily beatable.  Winning seven card stud requires players to understand
		                    their hands and the possible outcomes. A good stud
		                    strategy is to ensure your starting with at least three of a kind
		                    to move forward. Obviously your odds of receiving three
		                    of a kind on the deal or by 3rd street will depend greatly
		                    on the number of players in the hand and future betting
		                    rounds as well as the cards your opponents are holding.  Understanding the odds
		                    in Seven Card Stud will give you the ability to make
		                    correct decisions which ultimately leads to positive
		                    EV. You’ll
		                  need to use pot odds if
		                  your drawing to a particular hand and even have the
		                  basics of calculating implied
		                  odds since the betting in later streets will increase
		                  significantly. Below you’ll
		                  find a 7 Card Stud odds chart. This chart only provides
		                  odds on being dealt a specific hand so you can see
		                  how frequent or rare a stud
		                  poker starting hand is.  Odds of Being Dealt A Particular Hand in Seven Card Stud  Your odds of being dealt three
		                    of a kind - 424:1 Your odds of being
		                    dealt 3 suited cards - 18:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a straight if the first three
		                  cards are sequenced - 6:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a flush if the first three cards
		                  are suited - 5:1 Your
		                    odds of being dealt any pair with your first three
		                  cards - 5:1 Your
		                    odds of completing a full house if your hand holds
		                  three of a kind and three other cards on sixth street
		                - 4:1 Your odds of completing
		                    a full house if the first four cards combine to
		                  make two pair - 3.5:1 Your odds of completing
		                    two pair if you start with a pair in the first three
		                  card - 1.4:1 Your odds of improving
		                    to at least two pair if you begin with a straight
		                  flush draw like 7 8 9 -
		                  1.2:1 Your odds of completing
		                    a full house if you hold three-of-a-kind and three
		                  other cards on sixth street - 1.1:1  From the chart above you’ll see a wide range from
		                  one hand to the next when looking at the odds of completing
		                  a particular hand. This is because of the number of
		                  combinations that can be used. Likewise the odds of
		                  drawing to a flush and straight is just as gapped
		                  with multiple possibilities and combinations in play. 
The table below shows your seven card stud odds for flushes and straights.  Odds Draw to One Card in Seven Card Stud (Flushes & Straights)  Your odds to draw one card to a flush - 1:45 Your odds of holding a double open-ended straight - 1:5 Your odds of holding an open ended straight - 1:11 Your odds of holding an inside straight - 1:11 Your odds of holding a double open ended straight
		                    flush - 1:23 Your odds of holding an inside straight flush - 1:46 Your odds of being rolled up with three of a
	                    kind and improving to a full house - 1:3     Navigation   Online Poker (Home)  Poker Sites Reviews  US  Online Poker   US Sportsbooks  Canadian Poker Sites  UK / Euro Poker Sites   Other Top Pages   Biggest Poker Bonus  Poker Deposit Options  PayPal Gambling Sites  New Poker Sites  Largest
          Poker Traffic Sites  3D Poker Sites  Small Poker Rooms  High Stakes Poker Sites  Legal Poker Sites   Compatibility   Mac Compatible Poker  No Download Poker  Mobile Poker Apps   Poker Strategy / Rules   Poker Strategy  Beginner Strategy  Intermediate  Strategy  Advanced
	    Strategy  How To Play Poker  Online Poker Games  Card Games   Bonus Code / VIP    Ignition Poker Review  BetOnline.com Poker Review  888 Poker Bonus          Other Quality Pages  Bitcoin  Small
				Stakes Poker Sites  Free
				Instant Poker Bankrolls    Contact Us  About
			    Us  Our
			    Editors  Privacy
			    policy  Disclaimer  FAQ  Legal
		    / UIGEA  Copyright 2003 - 2018 OnlinePoker.Net - All Rights Reserved - 18+ - Please Gamble Responsibly                                                      2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > General Poker Strategy    > Beginners Questions        Odds in 7 Card Stud             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Beginners Questions  Poker beginner? 

Ask your (possibly) naive question here and our community will attempt to help you.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       06-16-2012, 01:47 PM   # 1       bewilderedman    journeyman    Join Date: Sep 2011  Posts: 255         Odds in 7 Card Stud      what are the odds of being dealt three of a kind  happened the other day for the first time,don't play it very often though                    bewilderedman   View Public Profile  Send a private message to bewilderedman  Find More Posts by bewilderedman  Find Threads Started by bewilderedman                     06-16-2012, 01:51 PM   # 2       kamikaze baby    old hand       Join Date: Aug 2011  Location: Canada!  Posts: 1,971         Re: Odds in 7 Card Stud      First card doesn't matter, your second card will match your first 3/51 times, and your third card will then match the first two 2/50 times. So the probability you get dealt rolled trips is (3/51)(2/50) = 1/425.                    kamikaze baby   View Public Profile  Send a private message to kamikaze baby  Find More Posts by kamikaze baby  Find Threads Started by kamikaze baby                    06-16-2012, 05:32 PM   # 3       MikeBandy    adept    Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: USA  Posts: 910         Re: Odds in 7 Card Stud        Quote:     Originally Posted by kamikaze baby    First card doesn't matter, your second card will match your first 3/51 times, and your third card will then match the first two 2/50 times. So the probability you get dealt rolled trips is (3/51)(2/50) = 1/425.     1/425 means you'll be rolled up once every 425 times.  There are thirteen ranks. 425 x 13 = 5,525, so the probability of being rolled up with aces is 1/5525.  Odds expresses the times of success to the times of failure. The odds against being rolled up is 424:1 (424 to 1). The odds against being rolled up with aces is 5524:1.                    MikeBandy   View Public Profile  Send a private message to MikeBandy  Find More Posts by MikeBandy  Find Threads Started by MikeBandy                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:20 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.        Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                        Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                                                              2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > General Poker Strategy    > Beginners Questions        What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Beginners Questions  Poker beginner? 

Ask your (possibly) naive question here and our community will attempt to help you.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       07-05-2009, 06:08 PM   # 1       pokerbucket    stranger    Join Date: Aug 2008  Location: oakland ca  Posts: 14         What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      This was nuts.... I was playing a heads up match... and we both started with 3 of a kind... does anyone know how to calculate the odd of this?                    pokerbucket   View Public Profile  Send a private message to pokerbucket  Find More Posts by pokerbucket  Find Threads Started by pokerbucket                     07-05-2009, 06:17 PM   # 2       AngusThermopyle    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2005  Location: Floor Yellow  Posts: 14,459         Re: What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      You X 52/52 (ie any card) Him Y (not X) 47/51 You X 3/50 Him Y 3/49 You X 2/48 Him Y 2/47  Multiply together.                    AngusThermopyle   View Public Profile  Send a private message to AngusThermopyle  Find More Posts by AngusThermopyle  Find Threads Started by AngusThermopyle                    07-05-2009, 07:02 PM   # 3       VBAces    old hand    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 1,927         Re: What are the odds of both players being rolled up in 7 card stud?      In Razz, I think I'm about 50% to start rolled up                     VBAces   View Public Profile  Send a private message to VBAces  Find More Posts by VBAces  Find Threads Started by VBAces                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:20 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.        Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                        Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                                                              2+2 Shortcuts     Hand Converter   2+2 Books  2+2 Magazine   2+2 Pokercast                        Non–US  players GET FIVE 2+2 books FREE!
see our poker bonus               2+2 Forums     Expand  Collapse      Popular Forums   News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics    Two Plus Two   About the Forums  2+2 Magazine Forum  2+2 Bonus Program  2+2 PokerCast  Best of 2+2    Marketplace & Staking   Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Offering Stakes  Staking  Feedback & Disputes    Coaching & Training   Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coaches  Tournament / SNG Poker Coaches    Poker News & Discussion   News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation  Twitch Online Poker  Televised Poker    General Poker Strategy   Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior  Poker Theory  Psychology    No Limit Hold’em   Medium-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes  Med-High Full Ring  Micro-Small Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL    Limit Hold’em   Mid-High Stakes  Micro-Small Stakes    Tournament Poker   STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events    Other Poker   High Stakes PLO  Small Stakes PLO  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw & Other Poker    Live Poker   Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy    Internet Poker   Internet Poker  NJ Party Poker  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software    General Gambling   Backgammon  Probability  Psychology  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games     2+2 Communities   Other Other Topics  The Lounge  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  House of Blogs     Sports & Games   Sporting Events  Fantasy Sports  Wrestling  Golf  Chess  Video Games  Puzzles and Other Games     Other Topics   Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming     International   Deutsch  Français  Español          Other Links      Two Plus Two  Authors  Book Translations  Abbreviations  Feedback  Advertising Info  Privacy Notice  Terms and Conditions    Poker Books at Professional Poker   Forum Archives                            Two Plus Two Poker Forums   > Other Poker Strategy    > Stud        odds of being rolled up twice in a row?             User Name   Remember Me?    Password                      Register  FAQ  Search  Today's Posts  Mark Forums Read  TwoPlusTwo.com                Notices                  Stud  Discussions of various forms of stud poker.                     Thread Tools    Display Modes                       01-12-2008, 03:31 AM   # 1       Xyphox    centurion    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 122         odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Just wondering what the odds of getting rolled up trips twice in a row are. I just got rolled up 6's and then rolled up 10's. Unfortunately i was playing razz lol.                    Xyphox   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Xyphox  Find More Posts by Xyphox  Find Threads Started by Xyphox                     01-12-2008, 03:43 AM   # 2       RustyBrooks    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Austin, TX  Posts: 23,428         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Is there an echo in here?                    RustyBrooks   View Public Profile  Send a private message to RustyBrooks  Find More Posts by RustyBrooks  Find Threads Started by RustyBrooks                     01-12-2008, 03:49 AM   # 3       ChipsAhoya    2011 $10k Stud8 Champion       Join Date: Oct 2004  Location: Splitting pots on a slide  Posts: 6,841         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by RustyBrooks    Is there an echo in here?     SRSLY!  -ChipsAhoya                    ChipsAhoya   View Public Profile  Send a private message to ChipsAhoya  Find More Posts by ChipsAhoya  Find Threads Started by ChipsAhoya                     01-12-2008, 04:48 AM   # 4       chucky    Pooh-Bah       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Best time Evar  Posts: 4,998         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      1/(17X25) squared                    chucky   View Public Profile  Send a private message to chucky  Find More Posts by chucky  Find Threads Started by chucky                     01-12-2008, 05:14 AM   # 5       Big Limpin    veteran       Join Date: Dec 2004  Location: chair  Posts: 2,091         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by chucky    1/(17X25)     fyp, ducy?                    Big Limpin   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Big Limpin  Find More Posts by Big Limpin  Find Threads Started by Big Limpin                     01-12-2008, 01:07 PM   # 6       Beavis68    Pooh-Bah    Join Date: May 2004  Location: AZ  Posts: 5,812         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      1:1                    Beavis68   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Beavis68  Find More Posts by Beavis68  Find Threads Started by Beavis68                     01-12-2008, 02:39 PM   # 7       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      according to west you get rolled up trips once in 425 hands.  so to get consecutive rolled up....(1/425) x (1/425) = 1/180625 ( same as 1/(17 x 25)*2, as posted above)  odds of being rolled up, but given fact you had them last hand changes nothing. still 424-1.                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-12-2008, 02:53 PM   # 8       RustyBrooks    Carpal \'Tunnel       Join Date: Feb 2006  Location: Austin, TX  Posts: 23,428         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Yes, of course, if you just had a rolled hand, your odds of getting on the next hand again is still 425:1.  However, if you are sitting at the hand before the first rolled up hand, the odds of the next 2 hands being rolled up are (425*425):1  Just like the odds of me picking up a coin right now and flipping heads twice is 25% not 50%                    RustyBrooks   View Public Profile  Send a private message to RustyBrooks  Find More Posts by RustyBrooks  Find Threads Started by RustyBrooks                     01-13-2008, 07:48 AM   # 9       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by RustyBrooks    Yes, of course, if you just had a rolled hand, your odds of getting on the next hand again is still 425:1.     hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-14-2008, 02:40 AM   # 10       Xyphox    centurion    Join Date: Dec 2007  Posts: 122         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      lol nice. So I thought that's how you'd calculate it. How would you calculate something like the odds of being rolled up 2 out of the next 3 hands?                    Xyphox   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Xyphox  Find More Posts by Xyphox  Find Threads Started by Xyphox                     01-14-2008, 03:01 AM   # 11       Andy B    Your Ad Here       Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: Unregistering  Posts: 15,017         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      3! * (1/425)^2 --------------- 2! 1!  or three times the previously-cited figure.  An explanation can be found in this thread .                    Andy B   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Andy B  Find More Posts by Andy B  Find Threads Started by Andy B                     01-14-2008, 07:19 AM   # 12       Merton0806    centurion       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: subway  Posts: 181         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      let Y be the number of times you are rolled up  Y -  B( n , p )   where n = number of trials, and p = probability of success  so in your example, Y - B( 3 , 1/425 )  general binomial formula is :P(Y=r) =  nCr x (p)*r x (1-p)*n-r  so for us its ,  P(Y=2) = 3C2 x (1/425)*2 x (424/425)*1  =  0.000016569  so Andy your almost right, just forgot the (1-p)*n-r bit                    Merton0806   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Merton0806  Find More Posts by Merton0806  Find Threads Started by Merton0806                     01-15-2008, 02:41 AM   # 13       Andy B    Your Ad Here       Join Date: Sep 2002  Location: Unregistering  Posts: 15,017         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Yeah, OK, I gave the chance that one would be rolled-up two times or more in the space of three hands.  The thread from four years ago makes that clear.                     Andy B   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Andy B  Find More Posts by Andy B  Find Threads Started by Andy B                     07-19-2010, 07:47 AM   # 14       joshinho    journeyman       Join Date: May 2008  Location: Australia  Posts: 390         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      It happened once to me sonny- waaay back in the spring of '38 in a quiet little town in South Carolina. It was harvesting time as I recall it, and the circus was in town.  Me, Jimbo and the boys were playing a some cards out on the porch about 5 in the afternoon just to pass the time. That's what we used to do in those days, you see.  The game was 7-stud - one of my best. Jimbo's brother had been beating me like a red-headed step child all day and i'd been running so bad - heck I couldn't catch a cold let alone catch rolled up 6's twice in a row. But thats exactly what happened next.  Jimbo's brother Cletus had the Ace showing and I decided to just call his completed bet with my 6. Well then he hit another Ace and fired at me again and I just called him again. I knew he didnt have the set of A's because I had one on 5th and Jimbo had thrown one away earlier.  I checked called him again and again and by 7th cletus was really starting to get anxious. I raised him on the end with my 6's full of K's and raked a huge pot- mainly money I had lost to him earlier anyways.  He was furious that he'd lost all that profit but didnt expect to get a second walloping the very next hand. I showed a 6 again and looked down only to see 2 more glaring back at me with 666, the number of the devil, for the 2nd time. I guessed today was my lucky day.  This time Cletus showed the King and as was his style he bet out. I raised him this time to disguise the hand and he made some smart comment like 'Y'all caint tell me you have those darn rolled up 6's again cain ya?".  I laughed mockingly and told him that it was surely an impossibility. He continued to fire at me until all of his money ended up in the middle. I had once again filled up on 6th street with the Jack so was feeling might comfortable with my hand. Sure enough I had him beat and showed him the rolled up 6's with the 2 Jacks along side. He couldn't believe his eyes and got up in disgust- and stormed off down the road- obviously not realising yet that we were at HIS house.  Me and Maud went out for dinner that night on the winnings. Ah those were the days. I never expected that kind of thing to happen again in my lifetime but you proved me wrong today sonny- you proved me wrong...  Thanks for letting me share and recount those memories.                    joshinho   View Public Profile  Send a private message to joshinho  Find More Posts by joshinho  Find Threads Started by joshinho                     07-19-2010, 08:21 AM   # 15       realsheesha    veteran       Join Date: Apr 2009  Location: The Netherlands  Posts: 2,297         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Merton0806    hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .     Must be great having you as a friend                    realsheesha   View Public Profile  Send a private message to realsheesha  Find More Posts by realsheesha  Find Threads Started by realsheesha                     07-19-2010, 10:58 AM   # 16       BestServedCold    centurion       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Bullhead City/Laughlin  Posts: 199         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Merton0806    hey im just catering for everyone here. when we go down to the casino, my friend ends up on the roulette machine. so i make my way over and he goes " hey its been 6 blacks in a row" and i say "obv. rigged, hey the next number just has to be red, you know to even it out and all".....he falls for it, next number is red and he now thinks he can beat the roulette machine .     Not a lot of people know this but roulette existed before those electronic results boards and it was a dying game. The casinos weren't getting a lot of players and it takes up too much space.  Those boards saved the game from a casino revenue standpoint and despite the fact that it's not as bad a game as many players think it is, it usually accounts for the highest per table revenue of any casino game.                    BestServedCold   View Public Profile  Send a private message to BestServedCold  Find More Posts by BestServedCold  Find Threads Started by BestServedCold                     07-25-2010, 09:51 PM   # 17       Ramstone    grinder       Join Date: Apr 2005  Location: Monte Carlo, playing Chemin de Fer  Posts: 517         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?      Odds you'll be ahead after playing both rolled up hands:  1 in 200                    Ramstone   View Public Profile  Send a private message to Ramstone  Find More Posts by Ramstone  Find Threads Started by Ramstone                    07-25-2010, 11:03 PM   # 18       AceMcSpadez    newbie    Join Date: Jul 2010  Posts: 36         Re: odds of being rolled up twice in a row?        Quote:     Originally Posted by Ramstone    Odds you'll be ahead after playing both rolled up hands:  1 in 200     +1                       AceMcSpadez   View Public Profile  Send a private message to AceMcSpadez  Find More Posts by AceMcSpadez  Find Threads Started by AceMcSpadez                             Tweet           «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »       Thread Tools        Show Printable Version   Email this Page       Display Modes        Linear Mode   Switch to Hybrid Mode   Switch to Threaded Mode                 Posting Rules       You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts   BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off   Forum Rules                      Forum Jump    User Control Panel  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home    Links to Popular Forums  News, Views, and Gossip  Beginners Questions  Marketplace & Staking  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Internet Poker  NL Strategy Forums  Poker Goals & Challenges  Las Vegas Lifestyle  Sporting Events  Politics  Other Other Topics  Two Plus Two  About the Forums  Two Plus Two Magazine Forum  The Two Plus Two Bonus Program  Two Plus Two Pokercast  The Best of Two Plus Two  Marketplace & Staking  Commercial Marketplace  General Marketplace  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking  Staking - Offering Stakes  Staking - Seeking Stakes  Staking - Selling Shares - Online  Staking - Selling Shares - Live  Staking Rails  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Transaction Feedback & Disputes  Coaching & Training  Coaching Advice  Cash Game Poker Coach Listings  Tournament/SNG Poker Coach Listings  Poker News & Discussion  News, Views, and Gossip  Poker Goals & Challenges  Poker Beats, Brags, and Variance  That's What She Said!  Poker Legislation & PPA Discussion hosted by Rich Muny  Twitch - Watch and Discuss Live Online Poker  Televised Poker  General Poker Strategy  Beginners Questions  Books and Publications  Poker Tells/Behavior, hosted by: Zachary Elwood  Poker Theory  Psychology  No Limit Hold'em Strategy  Medium-High Stakes PL/NL  Micro-Small Stakes PL/NL  Medium-High Stakes Full Ring  Micro-Small Stakes Full Ring  Heads Up NL  Live Low-stakes NL  Limit Texas Hold'em Strategy  Mid-High Stakes Limit  Micro-Small Stakes Limit  Tournament Poker Strategy  STT Strategy  Heads Up SNG and Spin and Gos  Mid-High Stakes MTT  Small Stakes MTT  MTT Community  Tournament Events  Other Poker Strategy  High Stakes PL Omaha  Small Stakes PL Omaha  Omaha/8  Stud  Draw and Other Poker  Live Poker  Casino & Cardroom Poker  Venues & Communities  Regional Communities  Venues & Communities  Tournament Events  WPT.com  Home Poker  Cash Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Internet Poker  Internet Poker  nj.partypoker.com  Global Poker  Commercial Software  Software  Commercial Software  Free Software  General Gambling  Backgammon Forum hosted by Bill Robertie.  Probability  Sports Betting  Other Gambling Games  2+2 Communities  Other Other Topics  OOTV  Game of Thrones  The Lounge: Discussion+Review  EDF  Las Vegas Lifestyle  BBV4Life  omg omg omg  House of Blogs  Sports and Games  Sporting Events  Single-Team Season Threads  Fantasy Sports  Fantasy Sports  Sporting Events  Wrestling  Golf  Chess and Other Board Games  Video Games  League of Legends  Hearthstone  Puzzles and Other Games  Other Topics  Politics  History  Business, Finance, and Investing  Science, Math, and Philosophy  Religion, God, and Theology  Travel  Health and Fitness  Laughs or Links!  Computer Technical Help  Programming  International Forums  Deutsch  BBV [German]  Français  Two Plus Two en Español               All times are GMT -4. The time now is 04:20 PM .                                           Contact Us - Two Plus Two Publishing LLC - Privacy Statement - Top           Powered by vBulletin® Copyright ©2000 - 2018, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.       Copyright © 2008-2017, Two Plus Two Interactive                           Poker Players - Streaming Live Online                          Home | Top 10 | Bonus Codes | Bookmark      Glossary  Articles  Store  Books  Reviews  Forum        7 Card Stud Strategy   The Basics   Preparing To Play   How To Play   Betting Rules   Hand Rankings  Strategy Guide   Key Points   7 Card Stud - Hi   7 Card Stud Hi - Low   Advanced   Tournament     Tips & Tricks   Strategy Elements   Odds   Win Percentage   Hand Value    Counting Cards   Using Position  Strategy Notes   Slow-Playing    Free-Raise   (more...)   Resources     Poker Players Alliance           This site endorses the practice of responsible gaming .    Stud Poker Odds - What are the 
            odds of me hitting... Based on the 
            probability of how many ways particular hands that can be dealt at a table with 
            seven cards from a 52 card deck, the way that you want to play your combinations 
            is to achieve the higher ranking hands where probabilities aren't out of the 
            range of 'realistic'. You also don't want to be playing hands that are far too 
            common and can be easily beaten.     Hand  7 cards          Straight Flush  41,584    Four of a Kind  224,848    Full House  3,473,184    Flush  4,047,644    Straight  6,180,020    Three of a Kind  6,461,620    Two Pair  31,433,400    One Pair  58,627,800    High Card  23,294,460     Looking down the 
            chart which is arranged from the highest possible made hand to the lowest hand, 
            you see that there is a large mathematical leap between ways that a four-of-a 
            kind hand and a full house can be dealt with seven cards. The range of 
            realistically catching better than a full house comes to a screeching halt. 
            There is another large gap between three-of-a-kind and two pair. The starting hand 
            combination strategy used for winning seven card stud hands, promotes aspiring 
            to achieve the median; three of a kind or better. The odds of catching the 
            median hands differ depending on how many players are at a table, how many 
            players continue on to later betting rounds, and the type of hands that any 
            player at a table is striving to achieve. In my experience 
            at fully seated low-stakes tables, it is not uncommon that players are using 
            combinations that will make two pair or better. When playing for two pair, 
            naturally you will want to have the highest two pair, and strategy is adjusted 
            accordingly. The table below 
            shows odds for flushes and straights. You can determine your odds based on the 
            number of persons in a multi-way pot. For example, if you have one card to draw 
            to a flush, your best odds to catch your flush is to have 4-5 people calling 
            bets. Straights happen most often at stud hi/low tables because there are so 
            many people in the hand at a time, more closely matching the odds needed to 
            catch that particular hand.     Draw one card with    Odds            Four cards to a flush    1 in 4.5    Double open-ended straight    1 in 5    Open-ended straight (1 end)    1 in 11    Inside Straight    1 in 11    Double open-ended straight 
                    flush    1 in 23    Open-ended straight flush (1 
                    end)    1 in 46    Inside Straight Flush    1 in 46    Rolled up with 3-of-a-kind    40% chance of improvement to a full house 
                    by the river.     More information 
            on hand odds is available here.  »Next»  Featured Site   bonus code: tilt4stud    Play Online              Play online poker for free at the top card rooms or, deposit money to play real games and win real money. Check out our deposit bonus code promotions ! Questions about easy deposit options ? Get the answers here.  Exlcusive Store Items    Card Counting Trainer Mouse Pad   Starting Hand Hi-Low Mouse Pad    Webmasters · Advertise · Banners · Links · Contact Us   All Content © 2003 - 2011 StudStrategy.com - HC Webs    7 card stud, stud strategy, 
  stud poker,  seven card stud, seven-card stud, stud, poker strategy, stud 
  hi-lo, stud high-low, stud hi-low, hi/low, limit stud, low limit stud, poker 
  glossary, online poker, poker online, play poker online, poker games, poker 
  books, how to play poker, poker, how to play poker, online poker, learn to play, 
  strategy, strategies, gambling, online poker, internet poker, internet, tactics, 
  winning poker, poker rules, ,poker history, poker tips, gambling, gaming, card 
  rooms, cardrooms online, online card rooms, casinos, wsop, WSOP, world series of 
  poker, poker champions, top poker, poker players, limit stud, limit, pot limit, 
  ParadisePoker.com, Pokerschoolonline.com, Pokerstars, UltimateBet, Paradise 
  Poker, Poker School, Poker Stars, Ultimate Bet, Party Poker, Empire Poker, 
  Planet Poker, 24 hour poker, Poker Top 100, WPT, World Poker Tour, poker store, 
  poker chips, cards, card shuffler, responsible gaming, responsible gambling, 
  gamblers anonymous, card games, starting hands, odds, poker odds, poker starting 
  hands, starting hand, 7 card stud school, poker affiliates, cardroom affiliates, 
  poker employment, poker props, poker jobs, counting cards, card counting, 
  community card, community cards, poker rules, official rules, Clonie Gowen, 
  FullTiltPoker.com, Full Tilt Poker, FullTilt, Full Tilt, Howard Lederer DVD, 
  Annie Duke, Evelyn Ng                 Rolled Up  Rolled-Up - Three of a Kind  by Jesse Knight       ♠ Poker Vibe  Poker Strategy  ♥ Online Poker ♥ Texas Holdem ♥ Omaha Poker ♥ Poker Theory ♥ Tournament Poker  How to Play Poker  ♥ How to Play Texas Holdem ♥ How to Play Badugi ♥ How to Play Omaha ♥ How to Play Stud ♥ How to Play Razz ♥ How to Play Stud High Low  Poker Basics  ♥ Texas Holdem Basics ♥ Poker Terms ♥ Poker Hands ♥ Poker Tells ♥ Poker Information ♥ Texas Holdem Online  Online Poker Tournaments  ♥ Sit n Go Tournament Tips ♥ Poker Freerolls  Book Reviews  Site Map    Rolled Up – Being dealt three of a kind on third street in any one of several types of Seven Card Stud games.  In most seven card stud games, players are dealt a three card starting hand before the first round of betting. This is commonly 
      referred to as third street, and usually consists of two cards delivered face down followed by one card delivered face up. If all 
      three cards have the same ranking (if they were all Jacks, for instance), the player would have three of a kind on the first 3 cards 
      dealt to him. This condition, having three of a kind on the first three cards, is called being “rolled up.”  This term is mostly used in stud games which employ a three card starting hand. This includes 7-Card Stud Hi/Lo and
      Razz. However, since Razz is a lowball game, being rolled up is a bad thing; it 
      makes your hand practically worthless. By contrast, in High Only and Hi/Lo games, it is extremely valuable to be rolled up. It is a 
      premium starting hand in both games, but it is especially valuable in the High Only game. In this game, being rolled up is far and 
      away the best starting hand, and will win a good percentage of hands without improving. If you are rolled up in 7-Card Stud High, you 
      will be in the lead unless someone else is rolled up with a higher rank.  In Seven Card Stud Hi/Lo a rolled up hand also has a lot of value, although not nearly as much as in the High Only game. This is 
      because the high hand must often split the pot with the low hand in Hi/Lo Stud. This significantly mitigates the value of a high only 
      hand. Two way hands like low straight flush draws and hands with aces will often perform as well if not better then being rolled up, depending upon the situation.  The odds against being rolled up are 1/ 425, which is commonly written as 424 to 1 against. For those who are unfamiliar with how to 
      calculate this, I will go over it here. Keep in mind that this method of calculation is useful for other types poker calculations as 
      well.  First, let me state the obvious by saying that you will be dealt three cards at the start of the hand. In order to be rolled up all 
      three cards must match in rank. In order to determine how likely this is we need to consider all the ways it is possible to be rolled 
      up, as well as all the ways it is not possible. A probability is essentially a comparison between an event happening and that same event 
      not happening. Since it is a comparison it can be evaluated using fractions. We will build the equation, but first, consider the following:  The first card you are dealt will have no bearing on whether or not you are rolled up. No matter the rank of the first card, so long 
      as the second card matches it, you will have a chance to be rolled up We also know that there are 52 cards in the deck with 4 cards 
      of each rank .  We know we will be dealt a first card. Of this we are 100% sure so we will give it a probability of 1, which is equivalent to 100%. 
      For our second card, we now have the possibility of receiving the remaining 51 cards in the deck, of which only 3 will match our rank 
      and allow us to continue our quest to be rolled up. We are now ready to set up the first part of the equation. We take the probability 
      of receiving a first card (1) and multiply it by the probability of us receiving a second matching card (3 out of 51, or 3/51).  So the first part of our equation is: 1 x (3/51)  So we know that 3 out of 51 times our first two cards will match, but to be rolled up all three of our cards must match. We now have 
      to add our third card to the equation. At this point we have seen two cards, leaving us with 50 possibilities for our third card. 
      Assuming that our first two cards matched, only two of the 50 cards will result in us being rolled up (2/50). So if we consider the 
      possibility that our first two cards will match 1 x (3/51) and consider further when our third card also matches (2/50), we are left 
      with an equation of:  1 x (3/51) x (2/50) = 6/2550, which reduces to 1/425. This means that for every 425 starting hand you are dealt, on average, 1 will be 
      rolled up. Written as odds (a ratio) this is 424:1.  Usage: Was Rolled-Up, Rolled up Aces  Previous Poker Term: Rock Next Poker Term: Royal Flush    Online Poker for a Living  Online Poker Cash Games  Multi-Tabling Poker Online  Poker Vibe Writers      Popular Articles:  Online Poker Tells  Poker Expectation  Playing Pocket Pairs  Basic Loose Aggressive LAG Poker Strategy  Basic Tight Aggressive TAG Poker Strategy  Sit N Go Strategy - Part 1: Early Stages  Sit and Go Tournaments - Part 2: Middle Stages  Single Table Tournament Strategy - Part 3 End Game        Translations                              (c) Shirley Rosario  More Poker Tips  Poker Vacations  Poker Journal  Steve Badger                                    PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Beginner's Guide to Seven-Card Stud | Play 7-Card Stud    Share:         1 September 2008  By  Sean Lind               John "World" Hennigan     Related Articles   Stud: Bluffing the Board  25 September 2008      Over the entire history of poker, Limit Seven-Card Stud may be the most-played version of the game in the world.   Before Hold'em became a dominating force in the poker world Stud was the big game all across America. In the post-Hold'em-boom poker world, Stud is becoming rarer and is mostly played by poker's old-timers.  Stud was a big game for decades for a very good reason. It's a wonderful game worth getting into and can make for a great break from the everyday grind of two cards.  This article aims to help beginner players improve their Seven-Card Stud game by playing in a solid, tight and aggressive style. It advocates balancing bluffs and semi-bluffs with mostly solid play and focuses on third-street play because this betting round is the most important.  If you play correctly on third street you will face fewer difficult situations in subsequent betting rounds, because the game quickly becomes very complex as it progresses.   As in all forms of poker there are exceptions to the rules, and the concepts addressed in this article should be understood as general guidelines only.  To be a truly successful player, you must be able to make exceptions and use your judgment in order to determine the best possible play. It is virtually impossible to give clear-cut advice that applies to all situations.  The best general advice, as mentioned in this brief introduction to stud , is a line that you're probably very familiar with.  "You only play premium hands. You only start with jacks or better split, nines or better wired, three high cards to a flush. If it's good enough to call, you got to be in there raising, all right?" - Mike McD from Rounders .  Key Skills to Becoming a Successful Seven-Card Stud Player  Strict hand selection  Discipline (the ability to wait for a good hand and not chase with second-best hands)  Ability to read opponents  Ability to remember the other players' up cards  A Comparison: Seven-Card Stud vs. Texas Hold'em  Here's a list of difference between the two games, some of which are glaringly obvious:  There are no community cards.  An ante and a bring-in bet are used instead of blinds.  There are five betting rounds as compared to four in Hold'em.  The player who has the best starting hand starts the action on every betting round, except for the first round of betting, when the lowest up card begins.  You must remember the folded up cards.  The number of players is limited to a maximum of eight.  There is no positional advantage before the cards are dealt. The cards determine who acts first and last on every betting round.  There is no dealer button, as every hand is dealt in the same order starting at the dealer's immediate left.  Structure and Antes  All players receive two cards dealt face down (hole cards) and one card dealt face up (up card). The cards are dealt one at a time.  The player with the lowest up card has to make a bring-in bet.  The betting continues clockwise with the player to the left of the bring-in bet.  A fourth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A fifth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A sixth card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  A seventh card is dealt face down. The action begins with the player holding the best up cards and continues clockwise.  All remaining players make out the best possible five-card poker hand.  The following table shows the most common betting structure in Seven-Card Stud:  Limit  Ante  Bring  Opening Bet  $1-$2  $0.25  $0.50  $1  $2-$4  $0.50  $0.75  $2  $3-$6  $0.75  $1.25  $3  $4-$8  $1  $2  $4  $5-$10  $1  $2  $5  $6-$12  $1  $2  $6  $8-$16  $2  $3  $8  $10-$20  $2  $4  $10  $15-$30  $3  $6  $15  $20-$40  $5  $10  $20  $30-$60  $5  $15  $30  $50-$100  $10  $20  $50  $75-$150  $25  $50  $75  $100-$200  $25  $50  $100  Key Advice for Limit Seven-Card Stud  Be very selective with your starting hands: Nothing is more important than choosing the correct starting hand for a certain situation.  Play the players: Assess the opposition quickly: who plays inferior hands, who folds at aggression, who bets with draws, who calls bets with weak hands and long-shot draws, who can be bluffed, who bluffs, etc.  Pump it or dump it: Fold or raise. You should avoid calling unless you have a good reason (like trapping an opponent).  Remember the up cards: Be sure to look at all of your opponents' up cards and remember them. It is very important to know if the hands are "live" (none or few of the key cards are gone) or not. The only way to get good at this is to practice. The more hands you play, the stronger you will get. Sign up to an online poker room , such as Poker Stars, to play as many free hands of Stud as you like.  Raise with your strong draws: Betting on the come is even more valuable in Stud than in Hold'em, depending on which parts of your draw are "up" and which are in the hole, or "down". If you're on sixth street with a four-flush (meaning you have four cards to a suit, only needing one more to make a flush), and three of your suited cards are down, betting on the come is less likely to get a fold than if you have three suited up cards.   Stud lovers.   Common Mistakes in Limit Seven-Card Stud  Playing too many starting hands.  Not paying attention to which cards are out.  Not folding with modest holdings and weak draws.  Not raising with premium holdings, thus letting too many drawing hands in.  Drawing for cards that are likely to give you a second-best hand. For example, calling an opponent who raised showing three to a flush with a straight draw is likely to land you with a losing, second-best hand.  Paying exclusive attention to your own game and not that of your opponents. How many players are in on fourth street? Did someone raise on third street? What types of players are left in the pot? These are all questions to consider during play.  Not being aggressive enough on third street (taking initiative) and fourth and fifth streets (following through/protecting hand).  Calling all the way to the river without proper pot odds.  Calling too often, instead of raising, when you have the best hand.  General Third Street Advice  The most important decisions in Seven-Card Stud are made on third street. You must be able to decide whether or not to play a hand and how to play it.   Some hands play better in multiway pots and some in short-handed pots. The hands that play well in multiway pots are drawing hands, like three-flushes, three-straights and combinations of the two.  The hands that play well in short-handed pots are big pairs.  One of the most valuable skills in Seven-Card Stud is the ability to be very selective about the hands you begin with. The problem with playing too many starting hands is that these mistakes are usually compounded in later betting rounds.  For instance, you might start with nothing and end up drawing to something with a hand you should not have been involved with in the first place. Mistakes like this can prove very costly in the long run.  There are a number of issues that should be taken into account when deciding which hands to play. They are as follows:  Which cards are out?  How many players are in the pot when it is your turn to act?  Is the table tight or loose?  How many players are sitting at the table?  Has the pot been raised? If so, from what player and position?  What is your position in relation to the raiser (if any)?  The most important factors to consider are what cards are out and how many players are in the pot. The combination of these two may sometimes make it correct to throw away the best hand on third street.  For example, in a multiway pot where you hold (J-J)7 and both of the other jacks and one seven are out, you should fold, even though no one has represented a bigger pair or has bigger up cards than a jack.  The chances of you still holding the best hand when all the cards are out are simply too small to justify calling or raising.  You can play this hand when you are in an ante-steal position (it is already short-handed), or in a multiway pot when all your cards are live.  And, while it is imperative that you remember which cards are out on third street, you must not stop there, as it's also crucial that you watch the other cards as they are turned up.  Starting Hands  It is very important to look around and see whether or not your hand is live. Most weak pairs, straight draws, flush draws, etc., are playable when your cards are completely live.   For example, you start with (T ♠ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♦ . This hand is much stronger if all sevens are live, as compared to two of them being out. If all sevens and a jack are out, your hand is almost dead.  The only exception to this concept is when you hold a pair of aces or kings (when no ace is showing), which can be played in most situations even if the hand is almost completely dead.  In order to make it easier when deciding what to look for in your starting hand, here's a list of the best starting hands.  Three of a kind (also called rolled-up trips). Starting with (A-A) A and on down.  The big pairs AA-JJ. The hand is stronger when the pair is hidden, thus making the hand more deceptive to play against. Also, your kicker is important; a (J-J) A is stronger than a (J-J) 2.  The big suited connectors, such as (A ♠ K ♠ ) Q ♠ , (K ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ or (J ♠ T ♠ ) Q ♠ .  The medium pairs TT-88 and medium suited connectors, such as (J ♠ T ♠ ) 9 ♠ , (T ♠ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♠ and (9 ♠ 8 ♠ ) 7 ♠ .  The big suited semi-connectors, such as (A ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ , (K ♠ J ♠ ) T ♠ or (A ♠ K ♠ ) T ♠ .  Mike McD, in the much-quoted Rounders line, talks about having "nines or better wired, jacks or better split." This means having pocket nines or better for your two down cards, and pairs of jacks or better with one of them your show card. He also mentions "three high cards to a flush."  All the aforementioned hands are valuable Stud holdings if played properly. This is a very tight system for starting hands. If you find yourself playing too many hands, it's a great default to revert to.  Stealing Antes  A good way to increase your profits is by stealing the antes. In a regular game, you generally get enough pot odds to show a profit if your steal success is around 40%.   However, your chances do not actually have to be that good because there are times when you will win the pot even though someone called you down.  An example of this would be catching a scare card (usually an ace or a king, or a card that might not help your true hand but connects your show cards, making a straight or a flush possible in your hand) on fourth street. Doing so enables you to win the pot by betting and representing a big hand.  Oftentimes your opponent will fold a small pair on fourth street if you have been the aggressor and if you have higher board cards than his pair.  Another reason to steal the antes is because it adds deception to your overall game. If you only raise with legitimate raising hands, you will never get any action and thus will not win as much as you could.  Anytime you are on a steal, it is important that you consider your opponents' up cards . In general, consider stealing when you hold the highest or second-highest up card.  A good time to steal is when you have the second-highest up card and the highest up card has yet to act. This creates the illusion that you have a legitimate hand since you raised into a higher card.  When trying this move you must always consider what type of player is holding the highest up card. If that player is a good, aggressive player, be more cautious about stealing.  Occasionally, if you suspect another player might be stealing, you should attempt to resteal . A good time to do this is when you hold a bigger up-card than your opponent and your hand has some additional value, like a three-straight or a flush.  Since you were planning to call regardless, you may as well try for a reraise if it seems likely that your opponent is on a steal.  If you are playing in a tight game, you can steal when you are sitting up front holding an ace or king as your up card. This is usually a mistake in a loose game because the chance for a successful steal is much smaller.  In general, you should not try to steal when your up card is duplicated in any of your opponents' hands. Your opponents will know you are less likely to hold the hand you are trying to represent and that you will most likely not improve to that hand if you get played with.  Seven-Card Stud Hand Odds  Hand-Against-Hand  Here are a few computer simulations of interesting hand matchups:  Hand A  Hand B  Dead Cards  Win Percentage  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♦  None  Hand A wins 66.6%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♠  None  Hand A wins 63.9%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 6 ♣  (9 ♣ 9 ♦ ) J ♦  None  Hand A wins 61.4%  (K ♠ K ♣ ) 8 ♥  (Q ♥ Q ♦ ) A ♦  None  Hand A wins 55.8%  (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  5 ♠ , Q ♠  Hand A wins 72.7%  The Effects of De ad Cards  Below are a number of tables displaying how your chances of making a certain hand change depending on the number of dead cards.  Hand: Three-Flush  Chances of a Flush (%)  0 Dead Cards  23.6%  1 Dead Cards  19.6%  2 Dead Cards  15.8%  3 Dead Cards  12.3%  4 Dead Cards  9.1%  Hand: (5 ♠ 5 ♣ ) A ♦   Chances of Aces Up or Trips (%)  Number of aces and fives out: 0  41.0%  Number of aces and fives out: 1  34.1%  Number of aces and fives out: 2  26.5%  Number of aces and fives out: 3  18.3%  Number of aces and fives out: 4  10.5%    Hand: (6 ♣ 7 ♦ ) 8 ♠ 9 ♥   Chances of a straight (%)  Number of fives and tens out: 0  49.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 1  44.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 2  39.4%  Number of fives and tens out: 3  33.8%  Number of fives and tens out: 4  27.8%   Stud is one of the oldest forms of poker and still a favorite game to many.  Next time you're spreading a home-game, add some stud into your rotation; you'll be glad you did!  View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017                                 Please fill the required fields correctly!  Error saving comment!  You need to wait 3 minutes before posting another comment.      King Reggin 2010-10-25 06:22:07  A horrible article, by a horrible person.    No Comments          Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                                     PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Stud: Bluffing the Board    Share:         25 September 2008  By  Sean Lind               Phil Ivey at the seventh-street showdown.     Related Articles   Beginner's Guide to Seven-Card Stud | Play 7-Card Stud  1 September 2008      Perhaps more than in any other poker variation, bluffing is the keystone of successful Stud play.   To bluff effectively you need to understand how to read the boards. And above all, avoid the dark-tunnel bluff - a bluff made without rhyme or reason.  Typically these bluffs are made on a whim after some arbitrary decision or read. Often players make dark-tunnel bluffs simply because they want to feel like they're actively playing poker rather than two-card roulette.  To make a true bluff, you as a player have to understand the current state of mind of your opponents and their table images, the texture of the board, the betting patterns and the odds (both implied and pot).  Is your opponent a math player on a draw? Are they on steaming-mad gorilla tilt? Are they trapping you? Until you know the answer to these plus 101 more questions, you can't make a true bluff.  The Board: Hold'em Vs. Stud  Reading a Stud board is a very different skill than reading the board in a game such as Hold'em. Hold'em is a complex game due mostly to the simplicity of its design. With a five-card community board, the total combination of possible hands, excluding your two cards, is small and obvious.  Here's a quick example of what I'm talking about:  Hold'em: what beats you?  Board:           Your Hand:     Obviously, the only thing you lose to here is a set. At any point during this hand, flop, turn or river, the story was the same. You had the nuts, second only to a set (which you had a huge redraw against on the turn).  Stud: what beats you?  Hand 1:                Hand 2:               Your Hand:               You have a strong hand - aces-up. So are you good? What can beat you?  Player one shows three to a straight; should you be afraid?  Note the cards he needs to complete a straight:  sevens and jacks are most important  sixes and queens are needed to complete    Howard Lederer playing Stud during the WSOPE H.O.R.S.E event.    Accounted-for cards include two jacks, two queens and one seven. Not to mention all the folded show cards, but being new to the game, you don't remember what any of those are.  Player two is showing a pair of jacks. The only way this player can beat you is to have trips. A jack in the hole or on the river beats you. Again, knowing if any jacks were folded would be very helpful here.  As you can see, reading a board in Stud is a much more intensive, demanding feat than in Hold'em. There's more going on, with each player having their own board. The chances of a misread or of missing what should be a strong read are greatly increased.  Some Numbers  The first thing to know about making a strong bluff in Stud is the odds of players actually having strong hands.  Here are some charts of calculations from MCU. All the following odds calculations are from the brain and pen of Mike Caro.  The Probability of Being Dealt Seven-Stud Starting Hands (First three cards)   The probability that you will be dealt this on the first three cards...  Expressed in % is...  The odds against it are...  Number of possible combos  3-aces 3-jacks through 3-kings 3-sixes through 3-tens 3-twos through 3-fives   0.02 0.05 0.09 0.07    5,524-1 1,841-1 1,104-1 1,380-1    4 12 20 16   2-aces 2-jacks through 2-kings 2-sixes through 2-tens 2-twos through 2-fives   1.30 3.91 6.52 5.21    75.7-1 24.6-1 14.3-1 18.2-1    288 864 1,440 1,152   Three parts of a straight flush Three parts of other flush Three parts of other straight ANY three of a kind ANY Pair   1.16 4.02 17.38 0.24 16.94    85.3-1 23.9-1 4.76-1 424-1 4.90-1    256 888 3,840 52 3,744   The odds against a player having rolled up anything (meaning trips off the deal) are 424-1.  One thing I'd like to point out is that this table can be deceiving to math newbies. You have the exact same odds of being dealt rolled-up fours as you do rolled-up aces. The odds are only 5,524-1 on being dealt any one specific rank.  For the purpose of this article the only worthwhile numbers in this table are the final five. Get a very firm handle on these numbers, as it's important to know how weak the average Stud starting hand typically is.  Some More Numbers  Chance of Improvement for Various Seven-Stud Hands Long Range: (You hold three cards.)   If you have A ♥ A ♦ A ♣ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   0.00*    35,312-1   Four of a kind   8.17    11.2-1   Full house   32.02    2.12-1   Flush   0.70    142-1   Straight   0.24    418-1   Three of a kind   --    --   Two pair   --    --    * Actually 0.0028% If you have A ♣ A ♦ 9 ♥ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   0.00**    23,541-1   Four of a kind   0.54    185-1   Full house   7.57    12.2-1   Flush   0.70    143-1   Straight   0.84    118-1   Three of a kind   9.89    9.11-1   Two pair   42.05    1.38-1    ** Actually 0.0042% If you have T ♣ J ♣ Q ♣ :   Probability that the final strength of your hand after seven cards will be ...  Expressed as a % is ...  Odds against it are ...  Straight flush   1.49    66.2-1   Four of a kind   0.07    1,431-1   Full house   1.50    65.9-1   Flush   16.56    5.04-1   Straight   14.91    5.71-1   Three of a kind   3.19    30.3-1   Two pair   17.33    4.77-1    As you can see from these numbers, the chances of improving are very slim. Once you take into account your cards and other show cards taking away outs, these numbers go down. If you're holding wired nines against the A ♣ A ♦ 9 ♥ , they're now down to catching a running pair, or the case nine, to make two pair. This will impact the percentage of improvement greatly.    Chris "Jesus" Ferguson never forgets a single folded upcard in any pot he's in.    Finally, the Bluffing  What all of this information means to you is that Stud is far more suited to a strong small-ball game than Hold'em. With hands failing to improve past one pair far more often than not in the first four or five streets, players are usually left holding no more than rags and weak draws.  When you do get called, often you're up against a strong draw or combo draw, allowing you to win if they miss. Aggression in the opportune moments is crucial to long-term profit at the game.  The key with Stud bluffing is to truly play the other players, and the other players' hands. You're looking to play off plausibility. If your show cards make it very probable that your hand has theirs beat, it's hard for them to call.  Here are a couple of examples.  Fourth Street  Their Hand:            Your Hand:          In this situation your opponent is, more often than not, sitting on a pair of jacks or less. Assume you completed off the deal, or raised, after your opponent obviously bricking fourth street, it's almost a sure thing that they'll fold to a bet here. Even though you literally have nothing, the fact that you're betting show cards makes it seem probable that you're sitting on a pair of aces at the least.  Sixth Street  Their Hand:              Your Hand:              In this situation you have nothing but a combo draw. Your opponent is showing a pair of kings. There is a very strong chance this player is on a strong two pair, or even trips. You don't believe they have a house (through your knowledge of odds, the cards you've seen folded and your reads in the hand), which means this is the perfect place for a semi-bluff.  Your opponent has no choice but to give you credit for a flush now, or a straight at the least. Almost all players will fold a two pair here, not wanting to draw to four or fewer odds against a made hand. If you do get called, you have a large number of outs to actually hit the hand.  Any Ace  People live in fear of the ace. Hold'em players have come to learn that the majority of players are known to play any ace they're dealt under any circumstances. When a Hold'em-trained player sees an ace as a show card, they almost automatically assume the player is sitting on a pair of aces.  The fear of aces will make players fold anything but a strong draw. A player holding kings will often believe that they have to catch a third king or a second pair to win the hand. Bricks on their board or strong hands (or ones that look strong to you) can almost certainly win you the hand with some aggression.  The same way the flop in Hold'em can make or break any two cards, the show cards in Stud are always more important than the strength of your true hand. Play off the only information your opponents get to see. If you give them a reason to believe they're beat, more often than not they're going to act on it.  If you want to start playing Stud online for free, low or even high stakes, many of the top online poker rooms offer Stud as an option.  More beginner strategy articles:  Beginners Guide to Simple Prop Bets  Ace-King Part 1: The Best Drawing Hand  Ace-Queen Part 1: The Worst Best Hand  View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017               Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                                     PokerListings - The All In Poker Guide    Contact us                    Play Poker          Best Poker Sites    Find the best poker sites to start your online poker quest. Our in-depth reviews make it easy to pick the right poker site            Real Money Poker    Ready to play for real? Check out the top online poker sites to play on for real money           Best Poker Bonus    A good poker bonus is essential. Find the highest possible poker bonus here.           Poker Freerolls    Want to win real prizes without risking anything? Poker freerolls are for you!         Poker Site Reviews      No Download Poker      Poker Tournaments      Mac Poker Sites         News & Blogs           News Home    Your home base for the latest poker news from the live pro tours, the Twittersphere and more.           Online Poker News    News specific to the online poker world including big scores, new promotions and new legislation.           WSOP news    The latest updates from the iconic World Series of Poker, WSOP Europe and beyond.             Poker Tour News    News and results from major live poker tours including PokerStars Live, partypoker Live & 888Live.           Poker Player News    News and features about your favorite professional poker players from around the globe.           888poker News    Everything you need to know about 888poker from big online series and promotions to 888Live.             PokerStars News    Everything PokerStars from its big online series to its highest-value promotions to the PokerStars live tour.           Battle of Malta    News, features and results from PokerListings signature Battle of Malta live poker festival.           BLOGS    Poker tech, must-watch poker videos and more from the lighter side of the poker world.          How to Play       Poker Strategy      Beginner Strategy  Tournament Strategy  Cash Game Strategy  Poker Odds Strategy       Poker Rules      Texas Holdem Rules  Omaha Rules  7 Card Stud Rules  5 Card Stud Rules       Poker Tools      The Official Poker Glossary  Poker Odds Calculator  Winning Hand Calculator  Complete Online Poker Guide        Battle of Malta    Videos    LIVE Poker          Poker Live Streams    Tune in live for great action from major poker tours, high-stakes cash games, Twitch favorites and more.           LIVE TOURNAMENTS    The latest news from live poker tours around the world including PokerStars Live, 888Live, partypoker Live and more.           WSOP    Live news, reports and features from Las Vegas and Europe for poker's signature series, the World Series of Poker.           Battle of Malta    Up-to-the-minute news, hand updates and videos from PokerListings signature live poker festival, the Battle of Malta.                             Home  >     Poker Strategy Section  >     Seven Card Stud         Limit Seven-Card Stud    Share:         5 December 2005  By  PokerListings.com                     Limit Seven-Card Stud may be the most-played version of poker in the world.   It is far more popular in the U.S.A. than in Europe, although Texas Hold'em is catching up quickly and might have already surpassed Seven-Card Stud as the most popular form of poker. Stud is also a popular tournament game and bigger casinos host a few Seven-Card Stud events every year.  This article aims to help beginners improve their Limit Seven Card Stud game by playing in a solid, tight and aggressive style. It advocates balancing bluffs and semi-bluffs with mostly solid play, and focuses on third street play because this betting round is the most important. If you play correctly on third street you will face fewer difficult situations in subsequent betting rounds, since the game quickly becomes very complex and hard to analyze as it progresses.  Limit Seven Card Stud is a very strategic game, involving a great deal of skill and discipline, and requires players to balance many concepts simultaneously. It is even harder to analyze than Hold'em because of the extra betting round.  As in all forms of poker there are exceptions to the rules, and the concepts addressed in this article should be understood as general guidelines only. To be a truly successful player, you must be able to make exceptions and use judgment in order to determine the best possible play. It is virtually impossible to give clear-cut advice that applies to all situations.  Key skills to becoming a successful Seven-Card Stud player  Strict      hand selection (patience/discipline) Good table      selection (very important in all poker games) Discipline      (the ability to wait for a good hand and not chase with second-best hands) Ability to      read opponents Courage to      bet/raise/call down (aggressive with draws or perceived best hands) Lack of      vulnerability to tilt Ability to      remember the other players' up cards A comparison: Seven-Card Stud vs. Texas Hold'em  The major differences between Seven-Card Stud and Texas Hold'em are that in Seven-Card Stud:  There are      no community cards. An ante      and a bring-in bet are used instead of blinds. There are      five betting rounds as compared to four in Hold'em. The player      who has the best starting hand starts the action on every betting round,      except for the first round of betting, when the lowest up card begins. You must      remember the folded up cards. The number      of players is limited to a maximum of eight. There is      no positional advantage before the cards are dealt. The cards determine      who acts first and last on every betting round. There is a      larger short-term luck factor. This means that the standard deviation is      greater and the game requires a larger bankroll. Structure and antes  All players      receive two cards dealt face down (hole cards) and one card dealt face up      (up card). The cards are dealt one at a time. The      player with the lowest up card has to make a bring-in bet. The      betting continues clockwise with the player to the left of the bring-in      bet. A fourth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A fifth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A sixth      card is dealt face up. The action begins with the player holding the best up      cards and continues clockwise. A seventh      card is dealt face down. The action begins with the player holding the      best up cards and continues clockwise. All      remaining players make out the best possible five-card poker hand. The following table shows the most common betting structure in Seven-Card Stud:  Limit Ante Bring-in Bet Opening Bet $1-$2  $0.25  $0.50  $1 $2-$4  $0.50  $0.75  $2 $3-$6  $0.75  $1.25  $3 $4-$8  $1  $2  $4 $5-$10  $1  $2  $5 $6-$12  $1  $2  $6 $8-$16  $2  $3  $8 $10-$20  $2  $4  $10 $15-$30  $3  $6  $15 $20-$40  $5  $10  $20 $30-$60  $5  $15  $30 $50-$100  $10  $20  $50 $75-$150  $25  $50  $75 $100-$200  $25  $50  $100 Key Advice and Common Mistakes  Key advice for Limit Seven-Card Stud  Be very      selective with your starting hands: nothing is more important than      choosing the correct starting hand for a certain situation. Table      selection: only play in games where you have an edge. You want at      least a couple of weak players at the table when you sit down. "Play      the players": make sure to quickly assess the opposition: who      plays inferior hands, who folds at aggression, who bets with draws, who      calls bets with weak hands and long-shot draws, who can be bluffed, who      bluffs, etc. "Pump      it or dump it": fold or bet/raise (if the odds are with you). You      should avoid calling unless you have a good reason (like trapping an      opponent). Remember      the up cards: be sure to look at all of your opponents' up cards and      remember them. It is very important to know if the hands are      "live" (none or few of the key cards are gone) or not. Raise      with your strong draws: whenever you hit a good draw, like a      four-flush on fourth street, always consider raising instead of just      calling. This move can make your opponent lay down the better hand while      you remain on a draw. Common mistakes in Limit Seven-Card Stud  Playing      too many starting hands. Not paying      attention to which cards are out. Not      folding with modest holdings. Not      raising with premium holdings, thus letting too many drawing hands in. Drawing      for cards that are likely to give you a second-best hand. For example,      calling an opponent, who raised holding a king, with a hand like (5-5) J.      Hitting two pair in this scenario could easily make you a second-best      hand. Paying      exclusive attention to your own game and not that of your opponents. How      many players are in on fourth street? Did someone raise on third street?      What types of players are left in the pot? These are all questions to      consider during play. Not being      aggressive enough on third (take initiative), fourth and fifth streets (to      follow through/protect hand). Calling      all the way to the river without proper pot odds. Calling      too often, instead of raising, when you have the best hand. Poor table      selection. Playing on third street  General third street advice  The most important decisions in Seven-Card Stud are made on third street. You must be able to decide whether or not to play a hand and how to play it. Some hands play better in multi-way pots and some in short-handed pots. The hands that play well in multi-way pots are drawing hands, like three-flushes, three-straights and combinations of the two. The hands that play well in short-handed pots are big pairs.  One of the most valuable skills in Seven-Card Stud is the ability to be very selective about the hands you begin with. The problem with playing too many starting hands is that these mistakes are usually compounded in later betting rounds. For instance, you might start with nothing and end up drawing to something with a hand you should not have been involved with in the first place. Mistakes like these can prove very costly in the long run.  There are a number of issues that should be taken into account when deciding which hands to play. They are as follows:  Which      cards are out? How many      players are in the pot when it is your turn to act? Is the      table tight or loose? How many      players are sitting at the table? Has the      pot been raised? If so, from what player and position? What is      your position in relation to the raiser (if any)? The most important factors to consider are what cards are out and how many players are in the pot. The combination of these two may sometimes make it correct to throw away the best hand on third street. For example, in a multi-way pot where you hold (J-J)7 and both of the other jacks and one seven are out, you should fold, even though no one has represented a bigger pair or has bigger up cards than a jack. The chance of you still holding the best hand when all the cards are out is simply too small to justify calling or raising. You can play this hand when you are in an ante steal position (it is already short-handed), or in a multi-way pot when all your cards are live.  And, while it is imperative that you remember which cards are out on third street, you must not stop there, as it is also crucial that you watch the other cards as they are turned up.  Starting Hands  It is very important to look around and see whether or not your hand is live. Most weak pairs, straight draws, flush draws, etc., are playable when your cards are completely live. For example, you start with (T ♣ 9 ♠ ) 8 ♦ . This hand is much stronger if all sevens are live, as compared to two of them being out. If all sevens and a jack are out, your hand is almost dead. The only exception to this concept is when you hold a pair of aces or kings (when no ace is showing), which can be played in most situations even if the hand is almost completely dead.  To make it easier when deciding what to look for in your starting hand, we have compiled the following list of the best starting hands.  Three of a      kind (also called rolled-up trips). Starting with (A-A) A and on down. The big      pairs AA-JJ. The hand is stronger when the pair is hidden, thus making the      hand more deceptive to play against. Also, your kicker is important; a      (J-J) A is stronger than a (J-J) 2. The big-suited      connectors, such as (A ♠ K ♠ ) Q ♠ , (K ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ or (J ♠ T ♠ ) Q ♠ . The medium      pairs TT-88 and medium-suited connectors, such as (J ♠ T ♠ ) 9 ♠ , (T ♠ 9 ♠ )      8 ♠ and (9 ♠ 8 ♠ ) 7 ♠ . The      big-suited semi-connectors, such as (A ♠ Q ♠ ) J ♠ , (K ♠ J ♠ ) T ♠ or      (A ♠ K ♠ ) T ♠ . The above-mentioned hands are all strong starting hands in Seven-Card Stud.  Stealing antes  A good way to increase your profits is by stealing the antes. In a regular game, you generally get enough pot odds to show a profit if your steal success is around 40%. However, your chances do not actually have to be that good because there are times when you will win the pot even though you got played with. An example of this would be catching a scare card (usually an ace or a king, which happens about 12% of the time) on fourth street, enabling you to win the pot by betting and representing a big pair. Often times your opponent will fold a small pair on fourth street if you have been the aggressor and if you have higher board cards than his pair.  Another reason to steal the antes is because it adds deception to your overall game. If you only raise with legitimate raising hands, you will never get any action and, thus, will not win as much as you could. Any time you are on a steal, it is important that you consider your opponents' up cards. In general, consider stealing when you hold the highest or second-highest up card. A good time to steal is when you have the second-highest up card and the highest up card has yet to act. This creates the illusion that you have a legitimate hand since you raised into a higher card. When trying this move you must always consider what type of player is holding the highest up card. If that player is a good, aggressive player, be more cautious about stealing. Occasionally, if you suspect another player might be stealing, you should attempt to re-steal. A good time to do this is when you hold a bigger up card than your opponent and your hand has some additional value, like a three-straight or flush. Since you were planning to call regardless, you may as well try for a re-raise if it seems likely that your opponent is on a steal.  If you are playing in a tight game, you can steal when you are sitting up front holding an ace or king as your up card. This is usually a mistake in a loose game because the chance for a successful steal is much smaller. In general, you should not try to steal when your up card is duplicated in any of your opponents' hands. Your opponents will know you are less likely to hold the hand you are trying to represent and that you will most likely not improve to that hand if you get played with.  Playing rolled-up trips  On average, you will be dealt rolled-up trips once in every 425 times. This is the strongest holding you can start with, though it does not necessarily mean you should always slow-play the hand. In a loose game, where lots of players give action with a wide variety of hands, slow-playing is almost always incorrect. A good time to slow-play the hand is when you do not want to give your hand away. For example, a king raises and then an ace re-raises. If you then re-raise with something like rolled-up deuces you announce to the table what your holding is. In this case it is better to just smooth-call and reveal your true strength in later betting rounds. An exception would be if you have been making many advertising plays or have frequently re-raised with hands like three-flushes. In these cases, your hand can be played fast from third street onward. When slow-playing your trips, it is usually best to wait until fifth or sixth street before putting in your first raise. Such a decision should be based on what your opponents' likely holdings are, how many players are in the pot and how big the pot is.  Playing big pairs  The big pairs are AA-JJ. These hands should almost always be played. The only times to fold them are when you are fairly certain that you are up against a bigger pair, or when your cards are dead (both of the other cards are already out). A pair of jacks can also be folded when you have a bad kicker to your pair and there are many big cards left to act behind you. Another occasion when it is correct to muck your big pair is when the pot has been raised and re-raised by players with bigger up cards than your pair. For example, you hold a pair of jacks and a king raises only to be re-raised by an ace before it is your turn to act. Remember that a two-flush and/or a two-straight to go with your pair give additional value to the hand. Before folding your big pairs, always consider the action and the opponents giving the action. If one of your opponents pairs their door card, and you don't have a four-flush or a four-straight, it is usually correct to fold your big pair.  Playing small and medium pairs  When deciding whether or not to play the medium pairs, always consider the following factors (the first two are the most important):  If you are      not in a steal position make sure all your cards are live before you      decide to play. Do you      have a strong kicker? What are the      other up cards? Is the      game tight or loose? Your hand      is stronger when your pair is concealed. Holding a      two-flush and/or two-straight gives your pair additional value. You should generally fold your medium pairs in raised pots, unless you have a bigger kicker than the pair the raiser is representing.  When you hold a medium pair and there are no up cards higher than your pair on the board, you should almost always raise with them. If you have a strong kicker to your pair, it holds certain advantages. For example, it allows you to represent a higher pair than what you hold and it increases your chances of ending up with the best two-pair. If the pot is raised and you have a strong kicker, you should call. If the pot has been raised and re-raised, you should generally fold no matter what additional value you hold.  Playing three-flushes  The way you play three-flushes very much depends on four factors:  How high      are your cards? How many      of your cards are live? What is      your up card? What is      your position? These factors greatly affect the way this type of hand should be played. Some three-flushes play better heads-up and some play better in multi-way pots. If all your flush cards are live but none of your pair cards are, then the hand will be played better in multi-way pots. This is because you will most likely need to hit your flush in order to win the pot. This will not happen as often as winning by pairing, so you want to ensure the pot is big enough for those times you hit your flush. Remember, if all your flush cards are live the hand is almost always playable. If you have high up cards, you should almost always raise when you are first in. This strategy also works well with the ante-stealing strategy, as it adds deception to your play.  Playing three-straights  Three-straights are generally not as powerful as three-flushes. Nonetheless, they can still be profitable hands. You must consider the following factors when deciding whether or not to play three-straights:  How high      are your cards? How many      of your cards are live? What is      your up card? Do you      also have a two-flush? What are      the other cards on the board? Who and      how many players are already involved in the pot? How much      will it cost you to play? How well      do your opponents play? Obviously, the more factors working in your favor, the more advisable it is to play the hand.  When the pot has been raised and re-raised, only play three-straights if your cards are live, if you have high cards and/or a two-flush. When you hold smaller unsuited three-straights, such as (7 ♣ 8 ♦ ) 9 ♥ , the most important factor to consider is how live the sixes and tens are. In general, do not play gut-shot three-straights unless you have high cards and/or a two-flush, and your gap card is live. For example, a hand like (Q ♠ J ♣ ) 9 ♦ can be played if no tens are out and it appears that you could win the pot if you paired one of your hole cards.  Hand-against-hand  Here are a few computer simulations of interesting hand match-ups.  Hand A Hand B Dead Cards Win Percentage (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♦  None  Hand A wins 66.6% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (Q ♠ Q ♥ ) 7 ♠  None  Hand A wins 63.9% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 6 ♣  (9 ♣ 9 ♦ ) J ♦  None  Hand A wins 61.4% (K ♠ K ♣ ) 8 ♥  (Q ♥ Q ♦ ) A ♦  None  Hand A wins 55.8% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  None  Hand A wins 68.4% (A ♥ A ♦ ) 7 ♣  (J ♠ 6 ♠ ) 2 ♠  5 ♠ , Q ♠  Hand A wins 72.7% The effects of dead cards  Below are a number of tables displaying how your chances of making a certain hand change, depending on the number of dead cards.  Hand: Three-Flush Chances for a Flush (%) 0 spades out  23.6% 1 spades out  19.6% 2 spades out  15.8% 3 spades out  12.3% 4 spades out  9.1% Hand: (5 ♠ 5 ♣ ) A ♦ Chances for Aces Up or Three of a Kind   (%)  Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 0  41.0% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 1  34.1% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 2  26.5% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 3  18.3% Number of aces and 5 ♠ out: 4  10.5% Hand: (6 ♣ 7 ♦ ) 8 ♠ 9 ♥ Chances for a straight (%)  Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 0  49.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 1  44.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 2  39.4% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 3  33.8% Number of 5 ♠ and T ♠ out: 4  27.8% View Best Rooms to Play : 7 Card Stud       Share:                   You May Also Like     Daniel Negreanu's Strategy Tips for Modern Tournament Poker   19 December 2017         An In-Depth Guide to Creating & Identifying Ranges in NLHE   8 November 2017         When to Fire a Second Barrel on the Turn: A Simple Guide   27 September 2017         A Noob's Guide to 8-Game: Learn 8 Poker Games; Crush Them   5 September 2017                                 Please fill the required fields correctly!  Error saving comment!  You need to wait 3 minutes before posting another comment.      AdvaddyBalt 2012-12-01 23:55:07  This week, excellent buy <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-mens-c-12/>north face mens</a> for feather clothing special to make thematic activities, and launched at the outdoor museum of 80 <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-shoes-c-1/>north face shoes</a> percent this winter – The new north face/Rosi Fiess "ultra slim" down jacket, which can be compressed into a ball of about b hundreds of grams, feather puff up to 800, compressibility, Super, windproof and warm better. It is understood that the shaggy <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-backpacks-c-3/>north face backpacks sale</a> degree is an international measurement down <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/>north face jackets sale</a> on warm and important indicator of the level, higher the fluffy down, warm the better, easier to compress. Shaggy degree in more than 750 is an excellent choice. It is understood <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/>cheap north face jackets</a> that outdoor brands including Columbia/Colombia, The north face/Lok Fiess, launched by the well-known <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-backpacks-c-1/>north face backpacks</a>outdoor <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/>north face outlet</a> cooked food to this thin "chop down", moving big companies like <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-mens-c-9/>cheap north face triclimate</a> also launched a variety of lightweight down jacket this winter. Buy online shoe professional presentations in addition to <a href=http://www.salenorthfaceoutlet.us/north-face-womens-c-11/>north face coats for sale</a> price, warmth, light, the amount <a href=http://www.thenorthfaceoutlet-usa.com/north-face-womens-c-23/>cheap north face womens jacket</a> of down-filled, fluffy-have become the primary consideration in down to the acquisition.     Quasibonko 2012-08-30 00:12:13  Agree with some of the comments about the article structure. Good stuff at bottom etc. But, it is good stuff because I read it 1hour before the R2 stud on sunday at stars and cashed in it, having never played stud before... It's a good game actually, but you really need to pay attention!    Jessica 2010-11-30 08:56:34  This is the most useless site I have ever come across. It does not help you understand Stud until half way down.. Wikipedia would have been better.    bogo 2010-08-31 17:57:42  @burn Same for me xD    burn 2010-07-17 13:48:26  I had to read this very quickly, because I just joined a freeroll limit 7 stud. Very odd game for me as I only play NL holdem.    Big John 2010-04-13 08:59:52  Very solid advice, thank you.    No Comments          Best Poker Sites - Editor`s Pick      Poker Site Ranking  Bonus       1        Free Money Poker    $1,000     Review      See more Reviews »             Free Money Poker      $1,000     Read Review          Most Views      Most Comments           Today      Week      Month      Ever        No Articles Found     Latest Blogs
				 
				»           How Poker Got Its Bad Name: Sol Smith & the Steamboat Hustle  You know how poker keeps trying to get rid of its reputation of being a...   26 September 2017              Beyond the Poker Table: Off the Beaten Path in Barcelona  For over a decade poker players have journeyed to Barcelona to play PokerStars events. It’s undoubtedly...   25 August 2017        See More Blog Posts »       Latest Videos »        Battle of Malta 2018 - New Home and Increased Guarantee   12 March 2018  70           Battle of Malta 2017: Nadav Lipszyc wins final table, takes home €200,000 prize   8 November 2017  39         See More Videos »            Tweets from @PokerListings/poker-top-30                     About PokerListings  PokerListings.com is the world's largest and most trusted online poker guide, offering the best online poker bonus deals guaranteed, exclusive site reviews and the most free poker content available on the Web.               POPULAR PAGES  US Poker Sites  UK Poker Sites  Canadian Poker Sites  European Poker Sites  Poker Games  Texas Holdem Poker  Omaha Poker  Stud Poker  Poker Bonus  Play Poker  iPhone Poker Sites  Android Poker Sites          TOOLS  Poker Hand Ranking  Poker Odds Calculator  Which Hand Wins Calculator  Side Pot Calculator  Poker Tournament Clock  Poker Question of the Day  Freeroll Schedule  Online Poker Deposit Options  Appeak Poker -Poker App-  Casino Poker Games  Poker Toplists  Real Money Poker Apps          POKER TOURS  WSOP  PokerStars Live/WPT  Battle of Malta        Popular Poker Rooms      888Poker      Tiger Gaming Poker      PokerStars      Full Tilt Poker               About Us / Contact Us    Disclaimer    Terms of Use    Responsible Gaming    Privacy Policy    Editorial Team    Site Map         Copyright © 2003-2018 PokerListings.com — All rights reserved.                    ×   Sorry, this room is not available in your country.   Please try the best alternative which is available for your location:   Close and visit page                           April 10th, 2018          Home    Top Sites By Country   US Gambling Sites  UK Gambling Sites  Canadian Gambling Sites  European Gambling Sites     Top Sites By Type   Sports Betting Sites  Casino Sites  Poker Sites  Horse Racing Sites  Daily Fantasy Sports Sites  Bitcoin Gambling Sites     Gambling Site Reviews   Bovada  SportsBetting.ag  BetOnline  Betway  Bet365  Casumo Casino     Sports Betting Guide   Football Betting  Beginner's Guide  Getting Started Online  Sports Betting Essentials  Sports Betting Strategy     Online Casino Guide   Beginner's Guide  Basics of Online Casinos  Casino Games  World Casino Destinations     Online Slots Guide   Slot Games  Slot Machine Strategy  Types of Slots  Slots Software Providers  Best Slots Casinos     Online Poker Guide   Beginner's Guide  Guide to Playing Online  Poker Games  Poker Strategy     Other Gambling Info   Industry News  Gambling Laws  Sites History  Popular Biographies  Real Money Gambling  Esports Betting  Daily Fantasy Sports  Blacklisted Sites  Skill Games  Horse Racing  Virtual Reality Gambling  Online Bingo Guide  State Lottery Guide  Gambling Blog  Free Betting Picks  FAQ              Poker Game Guide: Seven Card Stud    Seven card stud was the most popular form of poker before 
				Texas hold'em burst onto the scene in the early 2000's. Some 
				argue that holdem started taking over for stud in the 1970's, 
				and it did gain in popularity because the main event of the 
				World Series of Poker used Texas hold'em.  But 7 card stud still had a strong following through the 
				1980's and 1990's.  Stud is a strategically challenging game where partial 
				information dictates play. Unlike Texas hold'em or Omaha, in 
				seven card stud there are no community cards except in one rare 
				circumstance which I've covered below and each player will 
				receive seven cards in order to make their best five card poker 
				hand.  On this page you'll find a basic how to play guide and the 
				rules of the game followed by a strategy section. This will arm 
				you with the information you need to hit the felt and start 
				honing your seven card stud skills. As always, when reading a 
				poker guide you can only get so far, and the best way to learn 
				the game and become an expert is by actually playing it.  How to Play – Seven Card Stud Rules  Seven card stud uses standard poker hand ratings with a royal 
				flush being the best hand. The betting rounds are a little bit 
				different from other forms and antes are used instead of blinds. 
				Read on and we'll cover how the game is dealt, antes, bringing 
				in, and the betting rounds and structure.  Hand Rankings  I've outlined some examples for you below to show what hands 
				would beat others and some of the basic hands and associated 
				strengths. Seven card stud uses standard poker hand ratings, 
				listed below from highest to lowest.    Hand  Description  Example    High Card  A hand with no other combination. Valued by it's highest ranked card.       Pair  Two cards of the same rank       2 Pair  Two pairs combined       3 of a Kind  Three cards of the same rank       Straight  Five consecutive cards       Flush  Five cards of the same suit       Full House  A pair and a three of a kind combined       4 of a Kind  Four cards of the same rank       Straight Flush  Five consecutive cards of the same suit       Royal Flush  A straight flush that runs from the 10 to the Ace       To spice it up you can also occasionally find a hi/lo variant 
				of the game which splits the pot with half being awarded to the 
				highest ranked hand and the other half going to the low hand. Hi 
				/ Lo stud is a much more complex game however and we won't go 
				into it in too much detail here.  How the Game is Dealt  Unlike many other forms of poker there is no designated 
				dealer in seven card stud. Play begins with every player 
				entering the pot by wagering an ante. The value of the ante will 
				be determined by the table limits you're playing or by the 
				house. For example if you're playing $10 / $20 limit seven card 
				stud, the ante could be $1.  After each player has placed their ante in the pot the 
				dealing will begin with each player receiving three cards. The 
				first two of these cards will be dealt face down and are known 
				as the hole cards, with the third card being face up and called 
				the door card.   Betting Rounds  To start the initial betting, one player will make a bring in 
				bet. Using the above limits, the bring in could be $5. The 
				player who brings in is determined by the door cards, with the 
				lowest ranked card bringing in.  This player also has the option to complete, which would be a 
				$10 bet and is considered the first raise. In a limit game a 
				complete bet is equal to the lower limit and the bring in is 
				usually half the low limit.  From here the play continues clock wise around the table, 
				where remaining players have the following options.   Fold  Call  Raise   If the initial player only brings in for $5, then other 
				players can complete for $10 and this is considered the first 
				raise.  Once every player has had the chance to act, remaining 
				players are dealt a fourth card which is called the 4th street 
				card. As we don't have a dealer button to determine who acts 
				first, in seven card stud the player displaying the highest 
				ranking hand with their two face up cards acts first, and this 
				continues on the remaining streets.  At this time there is another round of betting, followed by 
				the 5th street, which is dealt face up and followed by a round 
				of betting. A sixth card is dealt face up with another round of 
				betting at this point. Finally 7th street, which is the players 
				7th card, is dealt face down. From here there is a final round 
				of betting and a show down where players expose their best five 
				card poker hand and the highest ranked hand wins.  Seven card stud is usually a fixed limit game. Using the 
				above limits of $10 / $20, this means on the 3rd and 4th street 
				the limit for each bet is $10, and on the 5th, 6th, and 7th 
				streets it is $20. The game has one exception to this betting 
				rule, If a player has a pair on the face up cards on the 4th 
				street they may bet double the limit, which would be $20 in our 
				example.  Running Out of Cards  It's possible to run out of cards in seven card stud. If 
				there are still 8 players remaining when the 7th street is due, 
				the dealer will place the last card in the middle of the table 
				and this will act as a community card for all players to use.  Seven Card Stud Strategy  Becoming a winning seven card stud player requires many of 
				the same skills needed to win playing Texas hold'em or Omaha.  Though stud isn't as popular as it was at one time, you can 
				still find games available in larger poker rooms and online. 
				Because most of the best players have moved over to playing 
				Texas hold'em there's a great deal of opportunity for smart 
				players to profit at the stud tables.  In this section of our game guide you'll learn the basic 
				strategy you need in order to become a break even player. You'll 
				then learn the advanced tactics used to start making a long term 
				profit. There's also some strategy advice for the hi lo version 
				of the game.  To start with, we've provided a few words on hand strength.  Hand Strength  Hand strength in seven card stud is a lot different than in 
				Texas hold'em. It's probably closer to Omaha. While a simple 
				high pair in Texas hold'em, such as , will often win the 
				pot in that game, in seven card stud a pair is not a strong hand 
				and often one or more players will be showing a pair on their 
				3rd, 4th, 5th, or 6th street. Often three of a kind or stronger 
				will be required to win at show down in seven card stud.  The best possible starting hand in seven card stud is 'rolled 
				up' aces (for example  ). This is where you're dealt 
				two aces face down and one face up. This is an extremely strong 
				hand and you have a very low chance of losing with this. If you 
				get any card rolled up you're in a very good position.  Basic Strategy  Remembering the Cards  The first step to becoming a winning long term seven card 
				stud player is remembering every card that's been played. You 
				can see the up cards for all of the players still in the hand 
				but when a player folds, her hand is no longer visible.  At first most players find it difficult to remember every 
				card they've seen, so we've put together a series of tips that 
				will help you to take advantage of all of the available 
				information on every hand.  Tip #1  You don't technically need to remember every single card 
				you've seen. The only ones that you must remember are the ones 
				that have something to do with your current hand. The issue is 
				that with your first three cards almost any card can come into 
				play later in the hand.  The only cards that can be safely ignored are when you have 
				three low cards, when you hold three high cards, or when you 
				have a set. With three low cards you can ignore face cards, but 
				don't ignore the aces because they can be used to make a five 
				high straight. If you have three high cards without an ace you 
				can ignore low cards.  When you have a set you can ignore just about any other 
				cards, but you may need to know the values of folded cards to 
				determine your possibilities of making a full house later in the 
				hand.   Tip #2  Ignore suits when your first three cards are three different 
				suits. Knowing the suits that have been played can help you 
				determine the odds an opponent has a flush late in the hand but 
				it won't come into play often. You still need to remember the 
				rank of the cards to see how they change your odds later in the 
				hand.   Tip #3  When two of your first three cards are the same suit, their 
				suit is the only one you need to track. The odds of drawing a 
				flush with only two out of your first three cards are suited is 
				low, but it does happen from time to time.   Tip #4  You can train your brain to remember every card that's been 
				revealed every hand. Start by tracking the cards, including your 
				own, in hands where you fold. You won't have the added pressure 
				of making playing decisions so it's the best way to start.  Work on this on every hand until you have it down perfect. It 
				doesn't matter if this takes weeks or months, as long as you 
				keep making progress.  As you should fold most of your hands you'll quickly get a 
				great deal of practice. Don't get discouraged, because you won't 
				be able to memorize all the cards right away. But it's a learned 
				skill so in time your brain will start remembering.  Once you're able to remember all of the cards folded when you 
				aren't involved in the hand focus on just the first up card for 
				every hand when you're still in the hand. When you have that 
				mastered it's only a short step until you're remembering all of 
				the folded cards.   Starting Hand Selection  The next basic strategy area you need to consider if you hope 
				to be a winning player is starting hand selection. Your starting 
				hand selection depends somewhat on your opponent's up cards, but 
				some hands should never be played and some should always be 
				played.  As we've already mentioned, the best starting hands are three 
				of a kind (called rolled up) followed by three high suited 
				cards, pairs, three high unsuited cards, and other three card 
				hands that work together in some way.  Just like in most forms of poker, the player who enters the 
				hand with the best starting cards wins a higher percentage of 
				the time than her opponents.  Your starting hand in any single game is a matter of chance 
				based on the randomness of the shuffle, but over time you'll 
				receive the same collection of starting hands as everyone else 
				who plays 7 card stud.  What this means is you have to fold hands that don't have a 
				chance to turn a long term profit as quickly as possible.  Hands without flush or straight possibilities, ones with 
				three cards that don't work together in any way like  , 
				and low hands with no pair are examples of poor hands that 
				should be folded as quickly as possible.  You also need to watch out for trap hands. Starting hands 
				with medium and low pairs are playable in most games but if they 
				don't improve they rarely hold up. One of the keys is 
				determining when to get out of the hand and when you should keep 
				drawing hoping to hit a three of a kind or two pair.  Pot Control  One of the biggest weapons you have is the ability to 
				influence the size of the pot. It might not seem like you have 
				much control because when you're drawing to a better hand all 
				you can do is check and call and when you have a big hand all 
				you can do is bet and raise, but both of these actions is a form 
				of controlling the pot size.  You want to put as much money in the pot as possible when 
				you're the favorite and as little as possible when you're not.  The challenge in most hands is figuring out when you're the 
				favorite and when you aren't. In the situations we just 
				mentioned it's easy. If you're drawing to a straight or flush 
				you're behind in the hand so in most cases you don't want to 
				build the pot until you hit your hand. If you have three of a 
				kind or better you'll want to build the pot until it's clear an 
				opponent has a strong hand.  But what do you do when you have a middle to high pair or 
				even two pair against an opponent who shows a pair?  It depends on your opponents, how they're playing the hand, 
				and the cards you see around the table.  The important thing is always be aware of the pot size and 
				know whether you want it to be bigger or smaller.  In limit seven card stud this is important, but if you play 
				pot limit it can be the difference between winning and losing a 
				great deal of money.  The size of the pot can quickly climb in a pot limit game so 
				you don't want to get stuck drawing to a weak or second best 
				hand in a big pot. Keep the pots as low as possible when you're 
				drawing and build them when you're the favorite.  Outs & Pot Odds  When you play Omaha or Texas hold'em determining the number 
				of outs is fairly easy to do. You always start with the same 
				number of cards and the same number of known cards are available 
				in each stage of the hand. After the flop you know the values of 
				your cards and the three community cards, and you know one more 
				card value after the turn.  But when you're playing seven card stud the number of known 
				cards changes all the time.  It's still a straight forward calculation, but you have to 
				pay attention and use the skills for memorizing the cards that 
				have already been played that we covered above.  Imagine the following example.    You're 
				playing with six other players and start with three hearts.  In addition 
				to your three cards you know the values of six other cards.  You know 
				the deck holds a total of 13 hearts and you hold three of them.  You 
				therefore know that that ten hearts remain in the deck.  If one 
				opponent has a heart showing there are now nine hearts 
				remaining.  Four of 
				your opponents fold, leaving three of you in the pot.  On the 
				fourth card you and one of your remaining opponents both receive 
				a heart.  Now you 
				have four hearts and two have been dealt to other players.  You have 
				seven outs to make your flush on the last three cards you'll 
				receive.    At this point it's important to note that you shouldn't make 
				the mistake of thinking that all of your opponents have been 
				dealt cards you can't see and some of the hearts are probably 
				among those cards. While it's true that some of the hearts are 
				probably out of play, the only information you can act on is how 
				many cards you get to see. Every other card is unknown.  In the example, you have seen your four cards, one card of 
				four of your opponent's and two cards of two of your opponent's. 
				This is a total of 12 cards, so you haven't seen the value of 40 
				cards. You have 7 out of 40 cards to complete your flush on the 
				next card dealt. Let's continue with the rest of this 
				hypothetical hand.    The fifth 
				card is dealt and no hearts are dealt on the round.  You still 
				have seven outs, but now they are out of 37 unseen cards.  The sixth 
				card is dealt and one of your opponents receives a heart.  Now you 
				have six outs for the final card out of 34 unseen cards.  To make a 
				happy ending, you receive your fifth heart as your final card.    As you can see from this example, your number of outs, and 
				unseen cards, change throughout the hand.  Don't panic because you don't think you'll ever be able to 
				figure all of this out while participating in a hand.  While some of the best players can figure exact percentages 
				and odds on the fly, most of us can't do it perfectly. The good 
				news is you don't have to do it perfectly. You just have to get 
				it close enough to make the right decision.  In the example above, you'll almost always be correct to stay 
				in the hand because when you hit your flush, even though it 
				won't happen as often as you miss, you'll win enough to make up 
				for the times when you don't hit it.  That's the magic statement that winning seven card stud 
				players understand and losing one's don't.  The secret of long term profitability in any form of poker is 
				putting yourself in situations where you'll win more in the long 
				run than you'll lose and escaping from situations where you'll 
				lose more than you win in the long run.  A big part of this is determining how many outs you have and 
				comparing it to the amount you can win when you hit your hand.  Most hands aren't as easy as the flush example, because you 
				have different ways of winning the hand. Though we didn't spell 
				it out, the assumption with the flush example is if you don't 
				hit the flush you lose the hand. But the truth is if one or more 
				of the non-suited cards got paired with one or more of your 
				hearts you could possibly win the hand without hitting the 
				flush. It won't happen often, but it does happen sometimes.  Instead of hitting your flush on the last card let's say you 
				paired your highest card and neither of your opponents show a 
				hand that can beat it. The odds of you winning the pot at this 
				point are small, but in a limit game if you only have to call a 
				single bet you almost always have to call in this situation.  Here's why.  Let's say at this point the pot has $200 and you have to call 
				a $10 bet to find out who won. This means that you only have to 
				win the hand one out of 20 times to break even. Even if you lose 
				the hand 19 times you'll break even in the long run if you win 
				once. If you win two times out of 20 you'll turn a profit in the 
				long run making this call.  Do you think you can win 5% of the time in this situation? We 
				can almost guarantee you'll win at least 5% of the time.  What if the pot only has $150 or $100?  This is where it gets a little tricky, but you still need to 
				try to guess your overall chances of winning and compare it to 
				the amount in the pot.  If you think you can win the hand one out of 15 times or more 
				you need to call if the pot has $150. If the pot has $100 you 
				need to determine if you can win one out of 10 times or more.  Every decision you make while playing 7 card stud can be 
				boiled down to the same type of mathematical decision. It's not 
				easy because you don't know exactly what your opponent holds and 
				you don't know your true chances of winning, but as you gain 
				experience you can get a good idea of the possibilities and make 
				an educated guess.  Table Selection  One of the easiest ways to improve your overall results while 
				playing 7 card stud is playing with opponents who aren't as good 
				as you at the game. We know it sounds simple, but most stud 
				players don't even consider the competition before joining a 
				game. It's common for only one or two tables to be active so 
				players just sit down at the first available seat and start 
				playing.  If you want to win as much money as possible playing poker 
				you need to find every advantage possible. If you can't find 
				games filled with weaker players than you why don't you try to 
				create a game? Of course you'll continue working on improving 
				your abilities, but spend some time trying to recruit players 
				you can beat.  You might ask why weaker players would join a game, but it's 
				no different than players taking the first available seat at an 
				open table. Some of the world's best backgammon players travel 
				all over to play rich and powerful opponents. These opponents 
				usually know they aren't as good as the pro, but they want to 
				play against the best and are willing to pay in the form of 
				their losses over time in order to do so.  Poker and backgammon have some things in common, including 
				the chance that a poor player will beat a good one on any given 
				day. The feeling of accomplishment when a poor player beats a 
				better player can be significant and make the long term losses 
				worth it to the lesser player.  The point we're trying to make is you won't know if the worst 
				poker player you know will play in your game unless you ask. 
				Just remember to treat them well even when they do get lucky and 
				beat you every once in a while. You don't want to run them off.  Finding or creating games filled with players who aren't as 
				good as you is a powerful enough strategy that if you don't 
				follow any of the other advice on this page except this you can 
				go from a losing player to a winning one.  How much do you think you could win if everyone started with 
				$1,000 and you started playing against five first time players? 
				More often than not you'd win $5,000.  What if instead of playing against five players who haven't 
				played before you play against the best five seven card stud 
				players in the world? More often than not you'd lose your 
				$1,000.  We don't know how to make it any more clear than that, but 
				over 90% of the people who read this advice won't act on it. 
				Make sure you're in the 10% and your bankroll will thank you in 
				the long run.  Intermediate and Advanced Play  We've combined the intermediate and advanced seven card stud 
				sections because once you master the basic strategy items 
				covered above you'll be well on your way to being a winning 
				overall player. Everything else works to improve your overall 
				play and profitability, so the line between intermediate an 
				advanced is blurred at best.  Once you learn which hands you can play and which ones you 
				need to fold early in the hand, the next thing that changes your 
				long term profit is how you play on the fourth through the 
				seventh cards.  You need to continue using what you learned above about how 
				to determine your outs and comparing your chances to win against 
				the amount in the pot and apply it to each round of betting 
				action.  It's easy to write about doing this, but in reality it takes 
				a great deal of practice and experience to improve. Even the 
				best players make mistakes, but the key is getting it right more 
				often than getting it wrong.  The next two areas, reading your opponents and mindset, will 
				both help you improve your advanced playing tactics.  Reading Opponents  Most poker players instantly think about tells when they see 
				or hear something about reading their opponents, but in truth 
				you can learn a great deal about the strength of an opponent's 
				hand by the way they bet and act throughout a hand.  Compare their actions with the cards showing in their hand 
				and around the table and when they start betting and raising and 
				/ or when they check and call.  You also need to know as much about their overall playing 
				tendencies as you can. The only way to learn about your 
				opponents is to watch them play and remember every time they 
				play a hand or difficult situation. Most low limit players tend 
				to play too many hands and bluff too much, so if a player has 
				these tendencies you can use this information when you need to 
				make decisions.   Here's an example:  In the situation we discussed above about calling a $10 bet 
				on the river with $200, $150, or $100 in the pot, if you knew 
				for a fact that the lead bettor on the river had a tendency to 
				bluff too often you'd call the bet with only $100 in the pot, 
				because the odds are he missed his draw and you'll win more than 
				one out of 10 times.   Though this is an advanced play beyond the scope of this 
				page, it might even be correct to raise in this situation if it 
				can get the third player in the hand to fold a better hand than 
				yours. The math on this decision is extensive and the truth is 
				you only make the play if you know the playing tendencies of 
				both your opponents well, but a raise can have a positive 
				expected long term value in some situations.  Most players will never reach the point where they even 
				realize a raise may be the best play, so when you start thinking 
				about the game at this level you're probably beyond the scope of 
				this page.  This leads to the subject of your mindset.  Your Mindset  The best poker players in any form of poker are not the ones 
				with the best natural abilities. The best poker players are the 
				ones that work at making themselves the best player they can be 
				and work endlessly on putting themselves in positions where they 
				win more than they lose in the long run.  This all starts with your mindset.  If you aren't willing to work hard and do whatever it takes 
				to be a profitable long term seven card stud player there isn't 
				much we or anyone else can do to help you. It's acceptable if 
				you just want to play for fun and aren't interested in working 
				at getting better, but don't say you want to be a winning player 
				if you don't do anything you need to do in order to improve.  Learning and using everything on this page is a great start. 
				The next step is start playing as much as you can and pay 
				attention while you're playing. With time, dedication, and 
				experience you can be a winning player.  Hi Lo Strategy  This page is mostly about the high only version of seven card 
				stud because it's by far the most common form of the game found 
				in poker rooms, but we wanted to touch on a few things.  The same general ideas for strategy pertain to 7 card stud 
				high lo as the ones used on Omaha hi lo, so it's a good idea to read 
				the strategy section on that page as well .  All high low split pot games have their long term 
				profitability based on the ability to scoop pots and win at 
				least three quarters of pots where the low or high is split 
				again.  In order to scoop pots you either have to win both the high 
				and low half of the pot or win the high half when no low hand 
				qualifies.  Low starting hands that offer straight and / or flush 
				possibilities are valuable. Starting hands with a pair and two 
				low cards also offer some possibilities, but every starting low 
				hand will have to improve in order to win part of the pot. You 
				only have a total of seven cards to work with, so you won't see 
				as many low hands qualify as you do in Omaha 8.  While most seven card stud high low games have an 8 qualifier 
				like Omaha high lo, don't make the mistake of assuming this is 
				the case. Always check the rules so you know for sure what 
				qualifies as a low hand and what doesn't.  One of the fastest ways to lose money playing seven card stud 
				high lo is to play low only draws. A starting hand of 2, 3, 4 
				looks great but you still need two more cards 8 or lower that 
				don't match your current cards to qualify for a low. It does 
				happen, but chasing a low hand when the pot has a great deal of 
				betting and raising will lose money in the long run.  Not only are you drawing to a fairly long shot hand, you're 
				almost always only drawing to half the pot. Of course you 
				probably want to see the fourth and fifth cards if possible with 
				a hand like this to see if a straight draw materializes, but if 
				you haven't improved on the fifth card you probably need to fold 
				to any bet.   Summary  It should come as no surprise that seven card stud was once 
				the most popular form of poker. It's a great game which gives 
				partial information to players and forces some great action.  The game is very easy to pick up and can be easily played by 
				beginners after just a few hands. It's a great entry level poker 
				game or an alternative for those that have been focusing on 
				Texas hold'em and want to expand their poker repertoire. The hi 
				/ lo variant of seven card stud is also fun, but a little more 
				complex so it might be a good idea to hone your skills at 
				standard seven card stud before moving on to the split pot 
				variety.  Simply follow the strategy advice on this page and not only 
				will you have a great time playing seven card stud, you'll also 
				have a great chance to win a little money along the way.      Article Details   Author: Brad Johnson Updated: October 2015     Related Poker Articles    Poker Beginner's Guide  Popular Poker Games  Best Online Poker Sites  Poker Terms  Texas Hold'em Guide      Latest Poker News    2018 WSOP to Have Eight Big Blind Ante Bracelet Events  Weekly Poker Roundup: April 9, 2018  Nevada AG Adam Laxalt, an Online Poker Opponent, to Run for Governor  Weekly Poker Roundup: March 12, 2018  Weekly Poker Roundup: March 5, 2018                 Home | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | Sitemap | Get Help  Copyright © 2018 GamblingSites.org. All Right Reserved.                            Home  Contact  Blog  Places to Play  Links  Site Map      Reasons to Play Stud High-Low  How to Play Stud High-Low  Unique Features of Stud High-Low  Terminology for Seven-Card Stud High-Low  Starting Hand Probabilities in Seven-Card Stud  Starting Hands for Seven-Card Stud High-Low     Starting Hand Categories for: Seven-Card Stud and Seven-Card Stud High-Low Eight or Better (Stud-Eight) Poker   The following terminology is useful for discussing starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low poker. The table below defines 12 types of starting hands along with a description and an example of each.   Descriptions and Examples for 12 Types of Three-Card Starting Hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low Poker    Starting Hand  Description  Example      Low connected-suited  Three sequential cards of the same suit with no card higher than an 8  3 4 5    Trips  Three cards of the same rank  9 9 9    Aces with a low kicker  Two Aces with a third card no higher than an 8  A A 2    Aces with a high kicker  Two Aces with a third card  higher than an 8  A A 9    Ace with two wheel cards  An Ace with two unconnected cards no higher than a 5  A 4 5   Low suited  Three cards of the same suit with no card higher than an 8  A 5 6   Low connected  Three sequential cards with no card higher than an 8  5 6 7    High pair  Two cards ranked 9 or higher with a third unmatched card  K K 7    Low pair with a low kicker  Two cards ranked 8 or lower with an unmatched card ranked 8 or lower  5 5 7    Flush with high cards  Three  cards of the same suit with one or more ranked higher than an 8  Q 6 7    Low pair with a high kicker  Two cards ranked 8 or lower with an unmatched card ranked 9 or higher  5 5 K    Low cards  Three cards not connected, suited or paired with no card higher than an 8  7 6 2     The twelve types of starting hands can be sorted into five broad categories that describe how they play. The categories of hands are: premium , big-possibility , one-way , situational and trap . The reasons for sorting the hands this way and the probabilities for each group are given.  Premium Starting Hands  The premium hands can often scoop pots without improvement. All total these starting cards are just 1% of all hands dealt. They should be played aggressively.  Trips. [Number of hands = 13, Number of combinations =52, Frequency = 0.24%, Odds = 424:1] Any rank is a powerful holding, however, low cards have the advantage of still allowing a low hand to form. Rolled trip Kings will never qualify for low. Another advantage of low rolled trips is that they are a powerful high hand that often looks like a low. In those cases the hand will generate lots of action from a player who believes incorrectly that he or she has a better high.  Aces with a low kicker. [Number of hands = 14, Number of combinations =168, Frequency = 0.76 %, Odds = 131:1] The lower the kicker the better this hand plays. Often the Aces will hold up for high unimproved or pick up a second pair to make Aces up to best two smaller pair. At the same time the hand can back into low to either scoop or save half the pot if the Aces do not hold up for high.   Probabilities and odds for premium starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Trips  13  52  0.24  424:1    Aces with a low kicker  14  168  0.76  131:1   Totals  27  220  1.00  99:1     Big-possibility Starting Hands  The hands in this group win the monster pots in Stud-Eight. However these hands need to improve because they are worth nothing on their own. The hands in this group can be played aggressively early on. These are rare holdings but don’t fall in love with them. If there is no improvement and a lot of action on later streets the hand should be mucked.  Low connected-suited. [Number of hands = 6, Number of combinations =24, Frequency = 0.11%, Odds = 920:1] This is one of the most powerful hands in Stud-Eight because it can scoop the entire pot in so many different ways while generating lots of action from players betting on both halves of the pot.  Low suited. [Number of hands = 50, Number of combinations =200, Frequency = 0.90%, Odds = 110:1] If an Ace is included the hand has added value. This is a good hand for jamming other players. Sometimes the hand will complete a flush for high, sometimes miss the flush but hold up for low and occasionally make high and low. Either way you can bet aggressively if this hand improves to a high or low on Fifth Street and make the others pay for your draw to the other half of the pot.  Low connected. [Number of hands = 24, Number of combinations =360, Frequency = 1.36%, Odds = 60:1] Does not have the flush possibility but low straights often scoop. A good hand for freerolling if two low cards are picked up that don’t connect. A player with a made low and an inside straight draw can jam two high hands and be assured of winning half the pot, while at the same time retaining an outside chance of a scoop.   Probabilities and odds for big-possibility starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Low connected-suited  6  24  0.11  920:1    Low suited  50  200  0.90  110:1    Low connected  24  360  1.63  131:1   Totals  80  584  2.64  37:1     One-way Starting Hands  These starting cards typically compete for one half of the pot and are good for cases where everyone is competing for the same half of the pot. There are hands in Stud-Eight where all the players are competing for either the high half or low half of the pot. In those circumstances playing a “one-way” hand that figures to be best against the competition but can also back into the other half of the pot is a viable strategy.  Aces with a high kicker. [Number of hands = 10, Number of combinations =120, Frequency = 0.54%, Odds = 183:1] This hand usually competes for high only and it is best played against other players vying for high when it can scoop. It does poorly against multiple low draws because in that situation its only potential is for half the pot and the low draws can freeroll on later streets placing a made hand as strong as Aces-up in an uncomfortable position. This hand is most powerful when the Aces are wired because it will generate action from smaller pairs thinking that they have the best high.  Ace with two other wheel cards. [Number of hands = 20, Number of combinations =300, Frequency = 1.36%, Odds = 73:1] This hand usually competes for low only but it does have high possibilities. How well it plays often depends on where the Ace is. In most cases you want the Ace exposed so that you can threaten people with a potential pair of Aces or a potential low. That way if you pick up bricks you might win uncontested if your opponents also pick up bricks. If your opponents are weak on Fifth Street, betting an exposed A, 2, J has more fold equity than an exposed 2, 3, J.   Probabilities and odds for one-way starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Aces with a high kicker  10  120  0.54  183:1    Ace with two wheel cards  20  300  1.36  73:1    Totals  30  420  1.90  52:1     Situational Starting Hands  Many Stud-Eight players automatically play the hands in this group. However, the viability of these hands depends highly on the situation. You should be very careful about when and how you play these hands.  High pairs 99, 10-10, JJ, QQ and KK. [Number of hands = 120, Number of combinations =1440, Frequency = 6.54%, Odds = 14:1] How well you play pairs will determine much of your profit in Stud-Eight. Automatically playing any pair as many players do will lead to disaster. As a general rule 99 and 10-10 should not be played. Paired face cards are only playable if they are the high hand on the board. You do not want to hold JJ in between a player with KK and another player with a low. The most likely outcome is that your two opponents will be dividing up your money.  Low pairs with a low kicker. [Number of hands = 98, Number of combinations =1176, Frequency = 5.32%, Odds = 18:1]  These are  starting hands that many Stud-Eight players will automatically play. However, as attractive these hands look, they come with a lot of problems. It is a poor start for a low hand because it has only two cards that count towards low and a poor start for a high hand because the pair is ranked so low. In other words, it is a mediocre holding to compete for either half of the pot, which means that often it will come away with nothing. Of the hands in this category, a low pair with a live Ace kicker is the most valuable because it has an outside chance of making Aces up. These hands are good for stealing antes and good for defending bring-ins against a steal. They play best heads-up against weak low draws. However, against players you know have strong holdings or against a large field these hands should not be played.  Three suited cards, one or more not low. [Number of hands = 230, Number of combinations = 920, Frequency = 4.16%, Odds = 23:1]  If the suit is completely live and it is up against other high hands these starting cards have some possibilities. If the cards are connected and suited the holding is more valuable and the hand is almost playable against low draws. However, for unconnected cards, completing a flush is rare and in situations where a flush only claims half the pot you rarely have the pot odds necessary to play. As a general rule three-flushes with high cards play much worse in Stud-Eight than in Seven-Card Stud and should usually be avoided.   Probabilities and odds for situational starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      High pair  120  1440  6.52  14:1    Low pair with a low kicker  98  1176  5.32  18:1    Suited with high cards  230  920  4.16  23:1   Totals  448  3536  17.38  5:1     Trap Starting Hands  These are attractive looking hands that play poorly and should usually be mucked. Playing hands like these for half the pot is rarely worth the investment.  Low pair with a high kicker. Hands such as 3, 3, J or 5, 5, K, have little value and in most cases should be mucked. The exceptions would be stealing antes or defending against a steal.  Three low cards (unconnected and unsuited). [Number of hands = 180, Number of combinations =2700, Frequency = 12.22%, Odds = 7.2:1] The “Razz” hands should be saved for Razz. These kinds of hands are only good for half the pot and in most cases the best you can hope for is to get your money back minus the rake. Many Stud-Eight players automatically call with these hands and stay to the end if they pick up a low draw on Fourth Street. The problem is that often if they hit low it is second best low. Just as you want to avoid playing the second best high hand, it is even more important to avoid playing the second best low hand. The high hand scoops if no one qualifies for low but a busted low is worth nothing.   Probabilities and odds for trap starting hands in Seven-Card Stud High-Low    Starting Hand  No. Possible  No. Combinations  Probability (%)  Odds      Low pair with a high kicker  70  840  3.80  25:1    Low cards  180  2700  12.22  7.2:1    Totals  250  3540  16.02  5.2:1     Final note: Three connected cards, one or more not low such as 8, 9, 10 or 9, 10, J play poorly in Stud-Eight and should be mucked.   ©Copyright 2009 by Intelligent Games Publishing - All rights reserved.No portions of these pages maybe reposted, or distributed without written consent of the publisher. For inquiries on use of any material contact: service@intelligent-games.com PLEASE NOTE: The material at this Website is for informational purposes only. In no manner should this Website be construed to offer legal advice on the issue of online gambling. It is the reader’s responsibility to know and follow the laws that apply in his or her state and jurisdiction. Seek appropriate legal advice from a qualified attorney if unsure. The publisher of this site does not endorse or guarantee any of the services described. The reader assumes all risks and responsibility for his or her actions. If you do not agree with these conditions, please exit the site immediately.