                    Menu   866-737-3570       About Us  |  Our Staff  |  Our Blog  |   866-737-3570       Our Programs  Our Facilities  Resources  Admissions       What Are the Chances of a Cocaine Overdose?   Home Cocaine Addiction What Are the Chances of an Overdose?    Cocaine is a powerful central nervous system stimulant that can often result in overdose, according to findings published by the U.S. National Library of Medicine . When the researchers interviewed hundreds of cocaine users, some in rehab and others not, they found that overdose experiences were “extremely common.”  Their findings also show that the route by which the cocaine is introduced has something to do with the likelihood of overdose as well. For instance, IV drug users reported more experiences with overdose than those individuals who smoke rock cocaine.  Overdose occurs when the amount of drugs in the body is too much for the body to withstand. Sometimes, overdose can result in death, and in other cases, it might not. There is, unfortunately, no way to tell what the outcome of an overdose will be in any given situation.   A Single Use of Cocaine Can Result in an Overdose  A young woman who had stopped using drugs several years before she suffered a devastating loss once chose to use drugs to alleviate some of her emotional pain, according to a report in the UK’s Hull Daily Mail . The young mother of a little girl died of a cocaine overdose having taken an amount that her partner didn’t see as excessive at the time, but the coroner explained that because she hadn’t consumed cocaine in so long, she would have had a decreased tolerance for it.  This is a danger for anyone who has suffered from addiction and found some success in managing the disease. When an individual is actively using a drug, such as cocaine, the body becomes accustomed to the influx of chemicals. As this happens, the individual must consume greater amount of the drug to achieve the same results. After a period of not using the drug, the body can return to a normal level of tolerance. If the individual injects, smokes or snorts an amount of cocaine that would be just enough to obtain a high before recovery, he or she may overload their heart and suffer a severe, or even fatal, overdose.   Cocaethylene: The Drug You May Not Know You’re Making  Mixing drugs together, or mixing drugs and alcohol, is never a good idea. However, individuals who partake in social drug abuse or who suffer from addiction to a drug are often not in a position to make sound choices. However, when mixing cocaine and alcohol, there is a specific risk.  Cocaethylene is a compound created by the human body when cocaine and alcohol mix in the liver. This substance intensifies the effects of the cocaine, making the mixture of cocaine and liquor appealing for someone addicted to cocaine; however, the effects of the compound greatly increase the risk of sudden death.   Rates of Cocaine Abuse and Emergency Room Visits  Each year, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration monitors drug- and alcohol-related visits to emergency departments and hospitals across the United States. For the year 2009, cocaine misuse and abuse accounted for almost half of the drug-related ER visits. Specifically, cocaine was a factor in more than 400,000 trips to the hospital.  Comparatively, heroin accounted for less than a quarter of hospital encounters. A few other facts about cocaine use and hospital visits are:   Using cocaine in hotter temperatures increases the risk of death from overdose, according to a report by Reuters .  The use of alcohol and cocaine together were responsible for the lion’s share of overall ER visits as a result of alcohol and any other drug.  Cocaine use had the highest rate of any other drug for ER visits.  Those ages 35 to 44 had the highest rate of cocaine-related ER visits.  More men than women visited emergency rooms for cocaine overdose.   How to Recognize a Cocaine Overdose  According the University of Arizona’s Methamphetamine and Other Illicit Drug Education program, there is no single set of symptoms for cocaine overdose that will apply to everyone. Some individuals may suffer from nausea or vomiting, while others may have an increased heart rate or problems breathing. Some others may suffer from both of these symptoms or have chest pain or tremors.  On a psychological level, the individual suffering from an overdose of cocaine might experience paranoia or they may become delirious. Panic and anxiety are also symptoms of a cocaine overdose.  The most important aspect to remember about a cocaine overdose is to err on the side of caution. If you or someone you know has ingested any amount of cocaine and you suspect that an overdose might occur, get help as quickly as possible. If you can’t safely transport the individual to an emergency department or urgent care facility, call the authorities so they can administer lifesaving help and transport them, if necessary, to a hospital.  Getting help for a cocaine addiction isn’t as difficult as it might seem. At Axis , we have the experience and desire to help you, or someone you love, overcome their struggles with this debilitating disease. Call us today, before the chances of a cocaine overdose become more likely for you or your family member.      Further Reading      Effects on the Circulatory System  Facts About Addiction  How Abuse Changes a Person’s Behavior  How Cocaine Makes It on the Streets  How Long Will Cocaine Stay in Your System?  Long Term Consequences  Ramifications on the Central Nervous System  Repercussions of a Psychological Addiction  Symptoms of a Physical Addiction  Types of Cutting Agents  What Are the Chances of an Overdose?  What to Expect From Withdrawal                         A strong foundation for sustainable sobriety    866-737-3570           Explore Axis   About Us  Our Staff  Testimonials  FAQ's  Contact Us     Axis Locations   Axis East  Axis West  Axis Pacific View     Axis Treatment   About Our Program  Drug Rehab  Alcohol Rehab  Heroin Rehab  Cocaine Rehab     Addiction Resources   Resources  Drug Addiction  Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment       Axis Home     Axis East  Axis West  Axis Pacific View       Facebook  Twitter  Google   ©2018 Axis Residential Treatment All Rights Reserved.    Home  Our Programs  Our Facilities  Blog  About Us  Resources  Admissions  Contact                                         Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 98.176.81.96) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 98.176.81.96) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: February 2, 2014   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            What provokes a cocaine overdose? Starting from dosage to overdose complications and signs of overdose, we review signs, symptoms, and prognosis for cocaine overdose. Stay with us and we invite you to ask your personal questions about cocaine overdose or risks of snorting cocaine at the end.  How does unintentional cocaine overdose happen?  Cocaine is a crystalline alkaloid obtained from the leaves of the coca plant. Because cocaine is highly addictive , cocaine is significantly more dangerous compared to other central nervous system stimulants (including the entire class of amphetamine drugs). So, when we talk about overdose, the best way to describe cocaine overdose is using the term “intoxication”, which manifest as immediate effects of too much cocaine in the system.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    Cocaine overdose – How much is too much?  Common doses of cocaine vary between 10-120 mg. The estimated minimal lethal dose of cocaine is 1.2 g, but individuals with hypersensitivity to cocaine have died from as little as 30 mg. Still, this is usually not the case with cocaine addicts, who develop a high tolerance to cocaine in the central nervous system. In fact, some cocaine addicts with considerable tolerance have reported that they can tolerate up to 5 g of cocaine daily.  Cocaine overdose complications  The biggest risk with most drug overdose is that people do not take as recommended. But that is not the case with cocaine. In fact, most cocaine deaths are accidental, usually because some of its effects increase risk of pre-existing health conditions, such as the elevated blood pressure. Additionally, repeated doses of cocaine administered to avoid the crash that often follows the initial intense euphoric effects put you at risk of overdose. Cocaine overdose also occurs when used in combination with other drugs such as a cocaine and alcohol mix .  The most common signs of cocaine OD include:   abdominal pain  agitation  cerebral hemorrhage  chills  convulsions  death from respiratory failure  delirium, unconsciousness  enhanced reflexes  hallucinations  headache  heart failure  hostility  irregular respiration  nausea  rise in body temperature  seizures  stroke  tachycardia  vomiting     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   Cocaine overdose prognosis The prognosis of cocaine overdose depends on many factors. Overdose from cocaine can be a very painful experience, among other things. And it takes time for the body to return to its stable condition after you OD. The body requires time to not only metabolize cocaine, but to normalize additional symptoms. For example, depression with suicidal ideation may develop in very heavy users. There is no officially approved specific antidote for cocaine overdose. Emergency treatment for cocaine overdose often consists of administering a benzodiazepine sedation agent, such as diazepam (Valium) to decrease the elevated heart rate and blood pressure. In order to treat hyperthermia the physical cooling method (ice, cold blankets, etc…) may be used. There are specific treatments developed for any further complications. Cocaine overdose death rate High doses of cocaine due to the effects on sodium channels can cause cardiac attack. Unlike other drugs, cocaine has certain qualities that make it cross the blood-brain barrier quickly, which can lead to brain shutdown. Statistics indicate that 100 people die per day from drug overdoses each day in USA. After marijuana, cocaine is the second most used illicit drug in USA and causes three times more death rates than any other illicit drug. In fact, nearly 500,000 cocaine users visit the ED due to cocaine overdose annually; over 7,000 of them are fatalities. Cocaine overdose amount questions Do you still have questions about cocaine OD? Please feel free to post your questionsin the comments section below. We will be happy to provide you with a personal and prompt response as soon as possible. Reference Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Unintentional Drug Poisoning in the US National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration: Cocaine Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration:The DAWN report  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      How much cocaine is too much?  March 12th, 2017      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      Can you die from taking cocaine?  June 7th, 2015      Cocaine  July 4th, 2016      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      How does crack work?  October 18th, 2012   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     Wesley Copp  Tuesday, February 4th, 2014   I know a lot of people think that really bad things could never happen to them, particularly a lethal accidental overdose. I lost my closest friend to an accidental overdose and I assure you, if it could happen to them, it could happen to you. My friend was young (26), fit (we went to the gym regularly) and as I later learned, a regular user of powder cocaine. 
Members of my friend's family, as well as myself, were unaware of the frequency of use that was occurring - people are very good at hiding these often secretive activities.
But on one seemingly normal Sunday afternoon my friend went into a violent seizure and slowly died in my arms, as family members called the Ambulance. Despite the efforts of medics who arrived a short time later, my friend had died from a cerebral hemorrhage caused by cocaine use, according to the Neurologist and the Coroner.
It is unbearable to watch someone close to you in a seizure lasting 15 minutes, with blood flowing out of their mouth and their eyes rolled back in their head while they convulse uncontrollably in your arms, each minute going by seeming longer.
I still have not come to terms with the unexpected and unnecessary death of my closest friend. The grief that follows for so many people that are affected by the loss of such a beautiful, vibrant, otherwise healthy person, is unbearable. 
So if you don't think it can happen to you and aren't worried about an accidental overdose, think again. Whether you are a regular user or a weekend warrior, consider the impact that an accidental and lethal overdose will have on your family and friends. Could your partner, your mother, your sister or your best friend's handle the grief they would be forced to endure. Stop using cocaine for them, if not for yourself.
Wes Copp     danni  Monday, September 22nd, 2014   I'm sorry for your loss, that's horrible. But the thing is I want to die. So I was just curious how much could do it ... hopefully it won't be so paniful, as for my family they'll be fine one less mouth feed     STEPHEN  Friday, September 26th, 2014   Hey Danni,

You don`t know the pain that they will feel and ``Life was given to you for a reason``!  
God gave you this gift, your body is fearfully and wonderfully  made.  He wants the best for you Danni, your life is important, OK, and he loves you, so work through this bro.  I lost a beautiful girlfriend earlier this year vacationing in Nicaragua and she overdosed on cocaine.  WE are bought with a price, our souls belong to God and its up to him to take us home in His time.  I`ll be praying for healing and peace during this time.  Love you man.  Yaweh Bless you.     jess  Wednesday, December 10th, 2014   So I dont use coke very often but I got a few extra bucks thanks to my second job and was crazy tired and the opportunity presented itself. I used to do alot of pills about a year ago but never uppers. In the past year ive prob done coke and only coke 5 times. I bought a g last night and did it all between 930 am and 330 today. Then the come down started sucking so I decided to buy another half. Alrhough I feel ok I dont want to od. That would be pretty shitty. So I guess my question is how much can I do before im at risk to od? I saw up in the article a g to 1.2 g. But is that at 1 time or throughout the day. Cause I shouldn't have a tolerance but ive prob done 1.2 gs since 930 am.     Cody  Thursday, December 18th, 2014   When doing cocaine is there a way to know when you've reached your limit? Any tell tale signs physically or mentally that warns you that your body cannot take any more or an overdose will occur?     Ivana @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 23rd, 2014   Hello Cody. Cocaine is a drug that varies greatly when it comes to purity. People usually decide how much cocaine they want to do and buy grams, and count the lines.     lucy rodgers  Tuesday, January 6th, 2015   i am so sorry for your loss. thats the only that keeps me from going over the absolute top is when i think of close friends and family and how unfair it would be to them if i ever left the earth too early. ive been really hitting danger zone a ton on coke recently and i feel fine when i take it and i know the come down. im up to multiple grams within super short periods of time. i dont want to overdose by mistake one time. does anyone know how one can accidntally overdose? i know my limits but i dont want to mess up real bad. i am currently in therapy and working unfortunately slowly on gettin help. prayers out to you and your friend's family and friends... thank u for sharing     barbarossi  Wednesday, January 7th, 2015   It depends on the purity of the drug. Most suppliers have mixed them and often the drug is only 20%-40& pure, however, if you know the dealers you can purchase higher quality cocaine.Though this will still vary rarely be pure as the growers and producers of the drug mix it as soon as it has been produced to increase profits.This happens many times and is eventually given to the end user. You can not guarantee what it has been mixed with but usually it will be mixed with glucose and teething powders that provide a a rush and numbing affect. So to get back to the overdose queries/awnsers it depends is they are talking about 1.2g of pure coke or mixed. I imagine pure as it would be impossible to say 1.2g of mixed as they cannot determine its purity. Therefore, to overdoes on your average street cocaine, 2-3g could cause an overdose. Or there could be a nasty additive that could make you brown bread!! Boom     Addiction Blog  Wednesday, January 14th, 2015   Hello Lucy. Accidental overdose can occur when you're mixing substances or when the coke is cut with something unexpected. I wish you continued improvements in therapy!  All the best to you, Lucy.     WES COPP  Monday, February 23rd, 2015   Yes there is no magic number that one can use as a measure of what is too much to cause death. After my friend died the coroner explained that normally the amount of cocaine found in the system of my friend would not cause death. But he advised that the additives in the drugs had recently been known to impact women more severely than men. 
Find a meeting or a trusted friend or professional to help you. It's not worth giving your friends and family the heart ache of having to cope with an accidental overdose death. 
WES COPP     lauren  Friday, April 10th, 2015   Herion, cocaine, crack, ALL drugs are work of the devil. The devil wants us dead. I'm not dead yet so the devil did not win. It won't win. I'm trying to pray for a better tomorrow because thoughts will consume you and eat you inside. So will heroin. I'm trying my best man. Addiction is no joke. Please don't mess around with this stuff if you know for a fact you cant handle what it spits back at you. That's how the devil works..it'll reward you NOW..but it looks for something in return later. But then again I don’t think anyone can handle what it spits back at you..people die over these drugs man..something that doesn’t have a heart beat people are DYING over. These terrible drugs don’t have a heart beat because they want yours. Im trying my hardest to get outta the web its gotten me in. This stuff will bring a GROWN MAN to his knees. KILL. PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM HEROIN AND COCAINE..because the devil is 100% alive     K oh kaine  Thursday, June 25th, 2015   Fully functioning hard seller and addict altho addict is for the light weights I slam and smoke up to and over 14 grams a day....if there was a way to overdose I would have iwhile taking a thumbnail sisze overflowing blast all the while calling them our death hits....been doing this with my crew and we live life as anyone would and injoy every aspect....of the way we can manipulat the feeling itself and the stages.....been thus rar over 20 years met thousands of people living the same way with families work responsibility family support dance recite blasting in bathrooms in you're car....I have never known anyone to die or any adverse reaction....it overdose death......text book propaganda. Don't get me wrong I have destroys lives but never have heard of death no matter the use I'm living proof and hi as fuck on coke you can't die or I'd shake you're head.....someone pease debatet me on this been selling and using Dore over 20 years very successful     Legalizepot  Saturday, July 11th, 2015   I hv used cocaine maybe once a year since I was 18-20 and back then I could put some away. I find nothing wrong as long as you don't shoot that's way more addictive, but this last Ko hoaine r whatever is crazy I know of two different ppl that od and died on slaming cocaine. Be careful     sweet pea  Wednesday, July 22nd, 2015   Im not sure how true that is about ODing but I went 11days non stop snorting cocaine and i didnt OD. I went threw $1250 worth of uncut coke, and Im still here. Maybe my drug tolerance is super high, idk. Maybe sum1 on here can help me understand.

Thanks 4 da help in advance     Jp_pimp  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   ahahaha I love coke and plan on stopping after this 8ball I have such a sad day     lucy  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   Hi,im not a addict,but i dont understand how i can take a gram in 3 hours and be ok?     wendy  Monday, August 3rd, 2015   I used to take huge amounts of cocaine on an almost daily basis, % grams a day was not uncommon, I have often read the snorting cocaine raises the heart rate and blood pressure I have a very good blood pressure monitor and have often tested my self while under the influence, My personal experience was that although my heart rate always increased ( sometimes alarmingly so) my blood pressure never increased one iota, as a matter of fact it frequently went down when I had a particularly high amount or the quality was particularly good, Can anyone explain this? Am I an anomaly or is the information that it increases the blood pressure incorrect?     Lt. Col. MP Chris  Wednesday, September 2nd, 2015   I have been in the military 28 years. And as an Military Policeman I have worked the drug suppression team on a number of those years. One think I have seen is soldiers trying to mainline and miss the vein. This can also lead to a certain death. Just stay away from it. Do what I tell my soldiers. If you must get screwed up because of to much stress. Go get a 6 pack of beer and sit down by the lake and relax. It works for me. and all of my troops.

Best Regards To All.     Alex  Wednesday, September 30th, 2015   Danni I'm exactly where you are. I've just found your post by chance. Out of vulnerability I'm feeling you. Maybe we can figure it out together? Hopefully I’m not too late danni. I feel you     Shaggy  Thursday, October 1st, 2015   Yo alex it's not too late for any of us buddy what's good?     Rob  Friday, October 16th, 2015   I am a 62 year old man in good health but i am beginning to experience vertigo symptoms and am inquiring about my cocaine consumption.  I started snorting cocaine at age 24 in 1977 and did more and more until 1988 when I stopped for 9 years and then stared again in 1997 at age 44 and did coke for 3 more years and stopped again in 2000.  i was clean until 2010 and in the last 5 1/2 years have been doing an eight ball a month.  i guesstimate i have snorted (only snorted never smoked or shot) 50 ounces in those 19 years; that equates to 1400 grams.
What are my health risks at this point?  i know the obvious ones like a heart attack or stroke but this vertigo has me freaked.  Thanks.     Ryan  Friday, November 27th, 2015   I understand that cocaine is cut in many different ways, but that being said I go to school in Texas and it is hard to find anything over 40-50%. That is just the way it is whether people realize it or not. If someone tells me they have 60%+ most of the time they are lying to your face. Now, my question is this... When buying cocaine through a dealer what can you look for in terms of quality because, if they cut it with something that your body isnt use to can that be the way people OD?     cathy  Monday, November 30th, 2015   my daughter over dose from coaine the 31th of last month the hardest thing i ever have been threw i dident even no she did that pray for my family please  thank you from cathy     Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 1st, 2015   Hello Cathy. I'm really sorry for what you and your daughter are going through... I hope everything ends fine...Your family is in my prayers!     T  Saturday, December 5th, 2015   I've done three grams of cocaine within one hour in one sitting, within my first few times of using. didn't feel the slightest overdosed. more so I felt intense.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, December 10th, 2015   Hi, T. If you get any worse, call 991 ASAP. Or, call the Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for an assessment of overdose risk.     Maggie  Wednesday, December 23rd, 2015   How fatal is injecting 2 g of cocaine? Ever heard of anyone who committed suicide using cocaine??     Darrel  Saturday, January 2nd, 2016   Hi I have a couple more questions for you about cocain overdose/fatalities. How long does it usually take to die from overdose, mins? Hours? Days?
Also how painful is it to die this way?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Sunday, January 10th, 2016   Hi, Darrel. Every person reacts differently to each drug. So, the fatal dosage varies from person to person.     joe  Monday, February 1st, 2016   I tested 10467 pg/mg and havent done cocaine im 7 months how is this possible?     A  Thursday, February 18th, 2016   I've been using coke for the last three months on and off w/o feeling headache or upset stomach or any of the symptoms listed above, however this time I purchased 5g and have been hitting 2-3 lines every hour or so now since 4am this morning and it is now 1:40pm and I started to feel nauseous and a minor headache so I stopped railing lines about 2 hours ago. So I guess my question is am I suffering from a minor OD and if so how could I flush the drugs out of my system faster to prevent it from getting worse?     lili  Monday, April 4th, 2016   what is the short term exposure of cocaine     Jamie  Sunday, April 17th, 2016   Hey guys. My girlfriend and I have been doing bliw for about 9 months off an on... When were on its an out a quarter ounce a week. So roughly an eight ball every third day. We're both the same age in our late 30s. We're in good shape an have good health. How long until serious health issues or damages should arise? Pls serious responses only pls     Josh  Monday, May 2nd, 2016   So my cousin just died from what we were told a cocaine overdose he was a heavy user and usually did about 9-14 grams a week of some pretty strong stuff he lived in chicago with his newly wife and addopted son i live in toledo ohio were our family is from he was found oddly here in toledo at a cemetery in his car soaked with a fishing pole no note or goodbye which is kinda odd why the theatrics if it was a suicide especially intentionally trying to overdose could be kinda difficult to plan not knowing how much it will actually take unless you had a mixture with it such as heroin oddly enough a week prior his wife opened a life insurance policy on him police will not release any information to anyone but his newly wife     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, May 11th, 2016   I'm really sorry for your loss, Josh...     devin  Sunday, May 15th, 2016   how does cocaine feel when you take a "safe" amount? have you ever took a line of cocaine?     Hombre  Saturday, May 21st, 2016   I am 53 years old and have done cocaine sporadically for many years. Today after having a few drinks I had a rush for cocsine and bought 2 grams... I am about to finish them... I started early yesterday around 8 so in all it has been already 22 hours... I feel dizzy, anxious, and starter shaking a bit... I do not want to throw the .5 gr That I still have... I am waiting to see if I can resist or not...'  I don't think I am close to OD but really feel super anxious!!!     Nick  Friday, June 10th, 2016   if you havent started doing coke, or any other hard drug, then don't. if you do, expect to do it more then once. withdraw aint no joke, and will start after the first time you use it. i used to think withdraw just made you physically sick. nope it is mostly mental at first, i never knew i could even feel that depressed before. think of it like this: in exchange for a huge emotional boost you have to go through the opposite for a longer period of time; and it just gets worse; plus tolerance goes up fast     Anne  Tuesday, June 28th, 2016   I shared a gram of cocaine with 2 other friends the other night over 3 hous so i must have gotten 0.3 g. It was my first time and we had been drinking. I had some high pulse and heart beating and couldn't slep a few hours later. Had small chestpains a couple Now i'm anxious that i'll get a seizure og cerebral hemorrhage. I told my doctor that i did a little with alcohol who checked my pulse and said i was fine. Still worried I will die suddenly though it has been over 3 days. How big is the risk that i'll die from the cocaine after 3 days?     Wise one  Thursday, July 14th, 2016   I used to do it allot in the old days  back when i was a teen I ain't gonna say don't do it because I would be a hypocrite not that i condone taking it butif someone is going to do it they will do it just take your time don't mix with other drugs or alcohol. Make sure you watch each other but it's expensive and you could get a simaler feeling of happiness if you spent your money at a theme park well hell it would save you the hassle of the comedown  the day after. But like I said be carefully and allways stick with friends     Joe  Saturday, July 23rd, 2016   All you people who say you can't overdose off cocaine are crazy. Either you've got bad stuff or Canada has stronger stuff than everyone else but a ball here will kill you if you do it to yourself. I've overdosed of two grams before     Steve  Friday, August 12th, 2016   Addiction is a very real thing. I started using coke about 3 years ago. At first it was just a bump here and there while drinking to keep me alert and not stupid drunk. Then I noticed I couldn't have a few drinks without having serious cravings, so I started buying .5's to get me through the night. The .5's turned into g's and lately I'll finish a g long before I want to and usually find some awful stuff at whatever bar I'm at. Now I've progressed to using 4-5 times a week. Quantities depend on how much cash I have. My gf works nights so that makes it easy for me to start after she leaves, usually around 7, use until 12 or 1, or whenever it's gone and try to get a few hours sleep before she gets home. I'm taking allergy pills constantly so I'm not stuffy around her because I don't want her to ask questions. I've become accustomed to going on 2-3 hours sleep each night and still functioning at work (3 jobs). No one has any clue. It's getting bad though. Last night I ran out and didn't have the high I wanted. I always use the same plate to sniff off so it had built up some residue. I spent an hour scraping that plate with a razor just to scrounge up a mediocre line. It was 1:30am and I was trying to figure out any way to find some but I had been drinking so no driving and I'm also broke as hell because I spent all my money on blow. Today, after 2 hours sleep last night I worked my normal 9-6 and then did a cash job (I'm a tradesperson) so I could get a g for tonight even though I swore all day that I wouldn't do any tonight so I could get some sleep. Now I'm high and reading a bunch of articles on how to get to sleep after this g. I'm an addict and I'm 32. I'm a bit overweight and my blood pressure is high-normal, at least that's what my doc said 2 months ago. My gf has big dreams for us that I share with her but I'm going to snort myself to death before we realize any of those dreams. I start college in 3 weeks for my final block of school and I'm terrified of cutting back to part time because I won't be able to afford blow. I owe $15k in taxes because they found out about my side jobs but I haven't paid them a cent. I'm in some big trouble, but, to hell with my problems, I'm high. It's so effing stupid. I've never told anyone this. No one. So I guess I'm just using this message board to vent. If you're reading this and have never done coke and you're thinking about trying it DON'T. Some people can just do a bit and stop, but there are many others like me. Oh, and don't forget about the comedown. I've had such severe depression and anxiety I have sat in the tub with a knife to my wrist on multiple occasions. The only reason I didn't go through with it is because I love my gf more than I love myself. She's bipolar and is coping well with me as support. If I were to ever go ahead with "it" I know she'd be right behind me. Thank you for your time.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, August 12th, 2016   Thanks for sharing, Steve. There's always a way to get your life back on track...     sandy  Saturday, August 20th, 2016   I need help i do coke even after i feel like i going to die. i had a overdose or near overdose were i was about to die ,  felt sad in pain anxiety and paranoid for couple hours more side effects but i made it so i thought it was just a bad come down after. my point is after that i started doing coke with more care. saving some lines for the end so when its all over i can do half a line or even less to keep to come down after coke to  beat me to hard. I have some pain meds from my cancer days 4mg hydromorphone pills little yellow buggers dont do much but will that help with my come down and slow my heart down?

also plz if anyone can tell me the difference between good coke and bad coke that would be really helpfull…. i started coke when i was younger for fun then got cancer so got healty and kicked cancers butt. i know im stupid… but i got back into drugs after doing heroine { black tar} and well after a while i had to quit it cause i didn’t get any were i was going. so i thought coke might help with the withdraws / Barly but its keeping me from laying down and crying like a you know what in pain from them. im on coke now so thats why i might not make much sence or smell very good but any body want to help me anything right now would help me from doing more coke…..i dont know how good of a idea it is to replace one drug with another to quit that first drug but i saw the coke withdraws are nothing if you put them up with Black tar PHEEM {heroine } so IF anyone even gets to this point in my stupid mini essay any help plz would be lovely.

i would also like to say i quit drugs before i know i can do it again. before i quit black tar H i went to hell for a month locked in my basement , well the first 2-3 weeks were hell after that it got better day by day…I just putting this out there so ill know that theres some hope in me… i have no one else to talk to about this. so i guess mostly im trying to tell myself by typing this that i can do it but any way with help you know of plz let me know>>>..im scared to go to the doctor to get anything for withdrawls.     patty  Wednesday, August 24th, 2016   My husband died of cocaine intoxication. It was actually the metabolite of cocaine
 The amt was 300 mg/ml. Was that alot? Thanks     Gerald  Tuesday, August 30th, 2016   Ive been up all night snorting cocain in small incumbents ( dont judge me ) buy my heart rate is boosted i have a minkr hesd ache and my voice is very weak. Just to say hello takes a lot i mean my voice is very soft. Are these symptoms of me staying up for over 23 hrs or am i having a cocain overdose?     Chiky  Sunday, September 25th, 2016   I smoke the devil Crack every day I still able to take care of my home my self and my family. . I most of the time smoke for free.. I smoke maybe one or two 20s daily.. something inside of me wants to stop because am get scared because of my heath or to die .. hoh do I stop this shit for good     Caroline  Monday, September 26th, 2016   A 2007 study by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction showed that the purity levels for street purchased cocaine was often under 5% and on average under 50% pure. So when there are 6000 people in the USA dying (2014) because of coke OD do they actually die of cocaine OD or of all the other crap that's in there? How is a cocaine OD identified as such?     Carolyn  Tuesday, October 4th, 2016   My daughter passed away from accidental drug overdose. She had less than 100 ug /kg of cocaine . And less than 100 ug/kg for opiates . I have toxology report to show this. It says I think from brain. This seems low to me .     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 7th, 2016   Hi Carolyn. I'm really sorry for your loss... I'd suggest that you speak with a coroner or another professional. I wish you peace in these hard times.     Oma  Wednesday, November 30th, 2016   Hello, if you take cocaine by injection , is it even more dangerous than snorting? Thanks     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, November 30th, 2016   Hi Oma. Both ways are dangerous. Cocaine is illegal and addictive drug.     Mrs lewis  Tuesday, December 6th, 2016   Friday i did some coke around 5 pm then did some more around 10 then a few hours later i went back and got more and all together i spent about 170 my comedown felt horrible im not sure how long comedowns last but on saturday night my heart was racing i couldnt sleep or eat i kept drinking water and using the bathroom i felt nauseated and i tried to make myself throw up but i still felt like crap then felt shortness of breath and my chest started to hurt i fianlly was able to get some rest but on sunday i still felt the same way and i been feeling very paranoid i went to the ER and they said my heart was find and everything looked good but i been having anxiety attacks and i still feel very paranoid and scared and i dont know what to do please help i need some positive advice please     Nova  Sunday, December 11th, 2016   It's perfectly normal, what you're feeling mrs lewis. Even after a single use even if you only did it once in your entire life your body will go through withdrawal. It will pass and you will get back to yourself. Just don't use it again! You can cause a serious addiction if you do it too much in a time frame. I had to learn how to space out my pain pills and frequently change them at my doctors office so that I do not become addicted to any one thing. Positive vibes doll. If you ever need anything then just say so! I'll watch this post to see if you reply!     Nova  Sunday, December 11th, 2016   Chiky, seek a rehab center! Immediately! There is no shame in wanting to cure your addiction and even more than that, it takes a strong individual to face their short comings or stop a vice that they have but it is possible and it can be better and you absolutely CAN live without it. Think of your family and what would happen if they lost you. You may have an addiction...like most people...you're human! But you can do something about it and I urge you to take they leap and go to rehab for your family and for yourself! Best regards, Nova.     AloneIn  Saturday, December 17th, 2016   I just wanna share what I'm going through right now, I'm an ex heroine addict been recovering n sober for more than 7 months now. 3 days ago a HUGE MAJOR HUGE fight with mother n siblings so I took off and traveled away carrying on me 20 grams of cocaine. I started using and up till now its been 48 hours n yet still using, iv done almost 10 grams the dose is not lasting more than 2 mins then severe depression hitting so bad wich brings me back to using....I sincerely feel I'm dying.  And the country I'm in right now has zero drugs tolerance so if rather die than contacting anyone.     Renee  Saturday, December 31st, 2016   My son had 1040ng/ml of cocaine in his system, along with oxycodone and alprozolam.  What does that amount equl to in grams?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, January 17th, 2017   Hi Renee. I used a converter that I found on the Internet, and the result was 0.00104 grams. Here's the calculator: http://www.endmemo.com/sconvert/g_lng_ml.php     Bryan  Monday, January 2nd, 2017   I was out drinking and ended up talking one line of coke on Saturday night around 8 will I die it is now 32 hours late.     Dazza  Monday, January 23rd, 2017   Well considering the purity of the cocaine that goes about it is very hard to od on.

On many ocassions recenty i have taken a cocktail of coke mdma and valium over like 3 day periods with no sleep, maybe a half oz 14g per sesh, its fairly common in my area.

The comedowns are really bad but a few vallium help it.     Cain  Friday, January 27th, 2017   I was a frequent user in my younger days. I couldn't stand waking up the next day with no sleep. The paranoia was hectic. I think the stress of having my door kicked down was my biggest fear. I can't believe how much I spent on this Devil Drug. It started when I was 14 years old. Was just selling it. I made so much money. Never touched it till i was 21.Then you know what happened next. I got hooked. From making about 150,000 a month to nothing. Lost the trust. Of my employer. I lost respect of myself. Well after one lost marriage and almost my second. Thank God my wife changed my ways. And God almighty. But I still find myself getting a little every 6 month. God I hate myself. I dont want to go back to my old day's. To everybody who's reading this. Stop before its to late.     Deanna  Friday, February 3rd, 2017   I need help as my friend has taking 6 big lines and she has put some in to 2 joints and she is only 17 and small and her weight is not good eather as she is only 6 stone so what dose that mean     Ronald  Tuesday, February 7th, 2017   Hey, if you seriously want to get better and off the hard shit, i highly suggest you give ayahuasca and/or Iboga some serious consideration. It has saved my life and empowered me to make the first steps in a long time that I have taken towards becoming exactly the person I've always wanted to be. The person true to your heart. It can be a pretty full on and difficult process but if you can handle the pain that comes from addiction you can learn to handle letting it all go and seeing yourself grow, and then the purer the body and mind during this process, the better the experience becomes.  Do a little research yourselves but remember this, it's a two way street. You have to meet in the middle with the plant medicines. It won't give you the healing if you don't want it though with a short burst of motivation and will to see yourself heal whatever it is that keeps us locked up in these endless cycles of suffering, you can really accomplish a traumendous amount. Little by little, day by day of working with the plant medicines and the guidelines of your teacher throughout this process, you will find yourself flying with pure happiness as you are being relived of all of those blockage that keep you suppressed from who you really are. You can live without fears or anxiety for daily life. You can feel pure, happy, and content with yourself in any situation you happen to find yourself in, learning instinctually how to overcome the many obstacles that push us to be stressed, depressed, and for many of us, use. Ayahuasca is not addictive and it has no side effects of long or short term use. In the Peruvian Amazon, it has been used for at least 2 thousand years to aid in the relief of all manor of illnesses. It wasn't until recently (last 40-50 years) when they starting having the patients drink the medicine. Before it was only the shamans who drank and did the healing work. This was has been known to simply be because It was only a shaman who could heal another and not themselves yet what many have found is that this keeps people from maintaining their quality of life without the help of the shaman. For this reason I highly suggest for anyone with a problem with addiction to make their way to a place where you can take ayahuasca and learn to heal yourself, only with the guidance and support of the shaman who can hold the proper space for you to do the work you are willing to do for the sake of your life and simply clarity of mind.     I'm scared...  Thursday, February 9th, 2017   I have never used drugs in my life. I split up with my wife of 17 years almost 2 years ago. Getting involved in the dating scene again has been fun yet terrifying at the same time. I dated a girl last summer who seemed fun at first but after a long night of drinking and hard time finding a cab a guy offered us a ride and sold us some crack and speed. We did it all that night and went out for more crack since that is all we could find. A day later my come down was horrible. I was paranoid and thought the world hated me. I spoke with a trusted friend who told me it was the speed that was doing it to me. Needless to say I don't think I would ever do it again.
Now... I have been dating an incredible woman for the last 5 months. After a couple months of dating she asked if I had ever snorted coke. I had not, but I told her about my experience last summer. She convinced me to give it a try. I was able to find a supplier that I personally know that I knew was a dealer in the past. Turns out he still is. He sold me a gram that my girlfriend and I shared over a weekend. It was an amazing experience with no come down that I noticed. We started doing it every weekend together. A few weeks ago I bought a gram and did a line on my own. I felt horrible and told my girlfriend I was afraid I was becoming addicted rather than just a recreational user. We made the decision to only do it every 2 week (pay day). We missed last Friday's pay day purchase because we were in Mexico last week. I wanted to buy some in Playa Del Carmen but my girlfriend didn't trust the street dealers. We got home this Monday morning and I texted my dealer right away but he was too busy to get me any. 
I ended up seeing my dealer today and bought 1 1/2 grams. 4 of us were there and shared my 1/2 gram and I was gonna save the 1 gram for myself and my girlfriend when I see her tomorrow. The stuff I got my dealer told me was not the same stuff I normally get. Actually it is MUCH better. I got to my place and decided to mix the 2 half baggies into 1 and left a little on the table do do a line by myself. My high was and is still extremely intense. I opened up my work laptop and did some emails and work like I have never done before. I impressed the heck out of myself with my own productivity. I have now gone through the entire gram but still have 2 lines left...1 now. I started wondering how much coke it takes to overdose and found this blog. I read many posts and am getting seriously concerned. I do not feel like I am going to overdose... I am under the 1.2 gram "minimum" that has been mentioned. I feel fine... might be a bit paranoid though since I am trying to research overdosing.
I am freaking out that I am becoming addicted. As it is I have already texted my dealer and told him I need another gram because I have snorted all the stuff I bought today. My girlfriend is expecting some tomorrow.
How do I stop this? It seems that waiting the 2 weeks between purchases is killing me. I wanted it so bad in Mexico but was able to control my desire for it with the help of my girlfriend.
Money is not really an issue right now but it's very expensive and I feel at this rate I will be dipping into my savings to support this nasty habit if I continue doing it on my own.
I have only been doing coke for about 3 months now and have probably spent close to $1500 on it. That's a trip to Mexico again!!! I am working with a realtor to buy a house and don't want to f$%k my life up over an addiction that less than a year ago never thought would happen to me.
I never wanted to do coke by myself and have now finished an entire gram by myself tonight over the last 6 hours... not to mention the 4 lines I did with my dealer an hour before I started on my own.
I'm freaking out... I'm Scared... I don't want to tell my girlfriend as she does not have an addictive personality and may not understand my problem. Although she is the one who introduced me to this amazing yet absolutely horrible drug I do not blame her at all. I have been extremely open to trying everything in life that I have never experienced and would have gotten around to it soon enough I'm sure.
I have an excellent job that I enjoy and earn enough money to live life and have fun (although I have never budgeted for an additional $500 per month for drug usage). I see people on the street who have been affected by addiction to the extreme. I do not want to ever be there.
Yet I watch movies like Wolf of Wall Street that glorify the usage of drugs and it makes me feel justified in my own usage. They were successful right? I don't have unlimited money like them, but I do have over $100,000 in my savings account for a down payment on a home. I am seriously freaking out that I am going to start using it. I need that money!
I don't remember if i mentioned it earlier in this way too long post, I apologize if I am repeating myself. I am a talker without being high. This drug seems to make me talk 100 times more... Off my point... I was trying to say I have only been a user for about 3 months. Is it that quick to get addicted? Should I seek professional help? I DO NOT want to continue this habit buy enjoy it so much. Last line is now done... It's 1am and I am alert and feel like I can stay awake all night, although no more coke so I guess I will see what a crash after a gram feels like in half an hour or so.
I don't want to see my doctor about my own addiction problem. He already looks down on me since he was my ex's doctor (she doesn't see him anymore), because I have seen him about my promiscuous behaviors since being single and he has sent me for std testing twice in the last year and a half. I guess he thinks I should be celibate? He just shakes his head at me. I dunno... He seemed happier my last visit when I told him I am exclusively seeing one person. I despise my doctor but it's tough to find a doctor that will accept new patients. Well, I know I'm rambling on and on... I doubt anyone will read this nonsense, but if you have read all I have said (typed), Thank You. I am scared out of my mind about becoming a junkie and possibly messing my life up to the point where I am jobless and homeless, but also don't want to disappoint my girlfriend by not doing this "recreationally" with her every couple weeks. How do I do one without the other? I will hate myself tomorrow for snorting all this stuff. I should never have bought it the day before I meet up with my girlfriend. I feel terrible. I want to tell her what I did. I hate secrets, that is what killed my marriage (I was a closet smoker with my ex-wife as she hated smoking, but my addictive personality wouldn't let me stop since we both smoked early in the marriage. I hated hiding it and lying) and I promised myself I would be me after my marriage. I do not  want to keep secrets from my girlfriend but I am scared that she will see me as week and kick me to the curb. I know 5 months is not long for a relationship but I love this woman and don't want to f&%k it up by keeping secrets about doing drugs alone... especially since I told her the last time I did it and told her I hated myself for doing it. And that was only 1 line!!! I have just inhaled an entire gram!!! I know she would want me to tell her, I'm just scared... I'm a weak man (that is hard to admit). I have a feeling she will understand and try to help me but this will prove to her I am weak. I don't think she sees me as being that way right now.
What do I do?!?!?! Please do not comment about finding God. I am an Atheist and will not join any type of AA style groups that promote finding God to help them. I just am curious if anyone else has pulled out of a short-term drug habit and made it out, and really did just use recreationally after that without the urge to do more. I do not feel bad doing coke at all when I am with my girlfriend or with my dealer. I have not told any of my friends that I have been doing coke so I have not done any with them... Actually I don't even know if some of my friends do it. Are most coke users closet users or are people fairly open about drug usage? Great!!! Now I'm keeping secrets from friends! Paranoid? I don't feel it but it sure looks like I'm typing that way.
I am gonna end here because I think I could keep going for hours and hours.
Summary. I hate myself for using coke by alone... I do want to continue using recreationally. 
Possible? 
Almost 2am now. Time to see if sleep is possible.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, March 3rd, 2017   Hi I’m scared… Don't be scared... I suggest that you call the Cocaine Helpline listed here on 1-888-497-6879 to get in touch with dependable hotline professionals available 24/7. You will be talking to someone knowledgeable about cocaine abuse, rehab and recovery centers who can help you find a cocaine recovery program.     Joyce  Sunday, February 19th, 2017   My 32 year old beautiful daughter died October 25, 2016. I just found out that it was from acute cocaine and alcohol toxicity as it took several weeks for her toxicology report from the state. For those of you using, go get help.....you still have a chance, my daughter doesn't. Her senseless death has broken many people whose lives will never be the same.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, February 22nd, 2017   Hi Joyce. I'm really sorry for your loss... I wish you peace in these hard times, and I hope that your message will help those in need...     MamL  Saturday, March 11th, 2017   My beautiful, clever, handsome son died 4 years ago from a cocaine overdose. He had a secret habit. Myself and his live in partner had no idea what he was up to. He had a good job, good circle of fiends and supportive family. What made him get addicted to this vile, destructive drug is beyond me.  I haven't been able to be honest with people about the reason for his death as I don't want people to think less of him, or even that he deserved to die. If this got out it would kill his grandparents and brother. If anyone is reading this and is struggling with drug addiction please please please I beg you get help.... if not for yourself but for the people in your life that love you. My son's death has destroyed our lives, it has taken away our hopes our dreams and we will now have to live out the rest of our days with the regret that our beautiful boy died at 30 years of age. PLEASE GET HELP.... PLEASE DON'T THINK YOU CAN CONTROL THIS INSIDIOUS DRUG AND PLEASE FIND A WAY TO STOP.BEFORE YOU DESTROY YOURSELF AND YOUR FAMILY. I hope my sons death and my post helps someone out there to find a way to kick this habit before it kills them. My son took 1g of cocaine.he went into respiratory failure, his lungs were full of fluid, so in effect he drowned. He died alone on a bathroom floor. If this post sounds harsh, I don't apologise. I want you to think about my words and get help to stop taking this filth. Thank you for reading this post from an utterly devastated mother who is living a a life of sorrow and regret.... a life sentence of misery.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, March 13th, 2017   Hi Mam L. I'm really sorry for your loss... Your son is in a better place now... Hope your message will help others to seek help for cocaine addiction ASAP!     Jordan  Friday, March 17th, 2017   I just wanted to send a personal thank you to wesley and mamL. Both of your stories were incredibly powerful. I currently am coming down from a high and I literally feel like I'm dying. My heart is beating incredibly irregular, my chest feels like it's going to explode. I sweat and then I'm freezing, I'm nauseas and twitching. I'm losing my mind and my mind is racing. I can't stop thinking about how death would affect all of my loved ones. This was my last visit with the devil. I just hope god keeps me alive right now to prove that. Too young to die and can't leave my 6 year old daughter without her father. Please lord let me live so I can be here for my family. I'm only 23. God bless and thanks again for expanding my perception and thoughts towards positivity.     Ronald  Saturday, March 18th, 2017   I use cocane every friday night im 33 usually its 1 gram or 2 at most last night i did 4grams and drank like a fish i have been up for 19 hrs slowly winding down about to go to bed in my experience i can only do as much as my nose will let me also you can only get so high then you have pretty much sniffed yourself sober and or dont want any more n go to bed.     I have 20 plus friend that sniff twice a week never more then 1 gram at a time and every one of us is fine. Yes its highly addictive but it gets old real quick.  I no a guy who had some realy good stuff and did .5 ounce in 24 to 30 hrs he is still fine we all are.    Over the years your nose starts to cave in.     Thanks for reading.     Dean  Sunday, April 2nd, 2017   I had 2 x 100mg lines, then I went out. I put the straw in the bag that had half a gram and meant to just have a 1/3. I snorted the whole half gram. I was ok for a bit, then got such a dry mouth I drank liters of water quickly, then I remembered you can die from drinking too much water on drugs. I got super nervous and didn't want to go to hospital because of police, when I got there I was going to leave but I stayed. They hooked me up to oxygen, heart monitor and iv drip. At one point I knew my name in my head but my speaking didn't work, at the worst point I had a fit or left my body and screamed, yet I had no control over the screaming it was involuntary and full of terror.  
I was only using prior to this a few times here and there 100mg to test quality, and even this small amount in a month I got bad depression, didn't shower or even notice I didn't. Stopped going to gym. I don't fear dying in my sleep etc but an OD on cocaine is full on terror, and not short. 
I don't know if I would of survived not going to hospital, and I feel bad taking up a bed because of my own stupidity.  It's easy to say but I will never touch cocaine again or give to people, it's not safe and the good feeling has an opposite feeling. It's the equivalent of jumping off a diving board into an empty pool, the jump was fun but it's not worth it.     MR. R  Tuesday, April 4th, 2017   what is the limited dose of cocaine for daily use?     Seedoubleyou  Tuesday, April 11th, 2017   Hi, I was hoping that someone can settle a dispute that I can not believe I even engaged in because its absolutely ridiculous. However, I would appreciate some feedback from outside sources. I have a female cousin who is 42 5'2, 105 lbs..4 years ago she was diagnosed with breast cancer, went through chemo and radiation, and had a single mastectomy. 1 1/2 years ago she had said her cancer came back,  she started dabbling in cocaine a year ago and drinking heavily saying she wasn't going through chemo or radiation and she will let the cancer kill her before she goes through being sick.
Now this this brings me to my dispute. Over the course of a year she was drinking and doing cocaine regularly in which she never did cocaine and was completely against it. One particular night she came to my moms, which is her Aunts house, went into the bedroom and my mom heard a big THUD...She went into the bedroom and my cousin was Latin face down incoherant. My mom called Ems and they came and they gave her Narcan. So, my cousin dealer who is a "friend" ( hardly a friend) said she did (3) 8 balls and took 5 xanax within 10 hr period...so is it possible that if she consumed that much in that period of time she would of been in bad shape long before she actually was? And the xanax only brought her heart rate waaay down after all that coke consumption? For me I just find it hard to believe that a woman who is not a " true" addict per say with a low tolerance  that she could not have been able to do half of that in that period of time that she did. OK any thoughts?     Kirika  Thursday, April 13th, 2017   So.. Danni.. it's been 3 years, did you go through with it? If you tried and chickened out, can you at least let us know if cocaine OD experience was very unpleasant or if it seemed like a viable option? If you didn't give up, then obviously you're not around any more to respond to this so I'm happy you don't have to suffer any more and I wish I had your strength.     Wanting to Help  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   Hey I'M SCARED...how are you doing? I hope you made it through this , but my I guess is you are hard at it unfortunately... I understand. I have been there. Pretty much kicked the habit 7 years ago..BUT I am in Playa Del Carmen RIGHT NOW and bought a bit of decent coke a few days ago, enjoyed it, suffered the loss of sleep the last couple days, and was considering going out for more tonight, but decided to do some research, and found this blog. Not going out now! Sitting at the bar settling with Tequila and Beer! let me know if i can help. BTW, lost my ass 7 years ago, now have a great waterfront home, girlfriend, and just climbed to the top of Mt. Kilimanjaro in January! Let me know if I can help! I feel your situation. Did I mention I just turned 60?     nelson  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   Hey  I am scared. feel free to contact me. been there exactly. gotbit all taken care of :)     bboy  Monday, April 24th, 2017   i came here looking for how much i can do before risking an od and leaving with a bit more awareness on how dangerous this drug is. started using it a month or so ago. pulse up to 140 bpm after a 12 hour binge and 2g or so last fri, sat pretty much written off as a recovery day after no sleep, sunday not wanting to do it but finding myself thinking about it all day, like fuck i really want to do it right now, but i shouldn't damn it, but i can't even imagine doing anything without it, like it was calling me, come to me, come get me, come use me, it will be ok, you can have just a little, just a little bump, it will make it so much better, I'm that little bit that you like, that you love, that you need, it won't be the same without me, it won't be worth it without me, come taste me just a little, just a little won't hurt, but i didn't do it and now its the end of the day about to go to bed and have to get up early and work tomorrow and still want it and thinking about it     Mental  Wednesday, April 26th, 2017   In the last 36 hours I've taken 4.5 grams of the most potent cocaine flake I've ever had in the UK. I just kept on going as to not crumble and sleep all day as I had things that needed doing. I feel bodily drained but am scared to sleep as I also suffer from anxiety and am medicated for this also. I can't find anything online to say I shouldn't sleep but I've also not seem anybody else that have snorted this much to themselves in such short time. Please advise asap.     Brenda  Thursday, April 27th, 2017   A close friend admitted to me 3 hours ago he did a 8 ball of cocaine and was drinking vodka all night
His heart rate is 64 low considering he has high bp in the last 2 months he has lost weight. Helluinates he has Post pardon stress disorder and suicidal thoughts..what should I do ?? Please help     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, April 27th, 2017   Hi Brenda. Call 911 ASAP, or call the Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for an assessment of overdose risk or with help on what to do next.     Miss big  Monday, May 15th, 2017   How long after doing your last line of coke can and OD happen i it can happen as soon and u snort a line but how long after that last one gone do u have to worry about oding     James  Saturday, May 20th, 2017   I have on and off relationship with this drug. I just recently started using again its not stop me from living but I know its something I have to let go. What can I do to stop for good?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, May 22nd, 2017   Hi James. Call the Cocaine Helpline on 1-888-497-6879 to speak to a treatment support specialist about cocaine rehabilitation programs for you. Our helpline is open 24 hours a day.     Swim  Sunday, June 11th, 2017   Swim likes to do cocaine 1 or two times a week and always drinks with it.... Once he reaches a certain point(long before the people he is doing it with) his heart rate raises and he gets quiet and starts to REALLY NOT FEEL GOOD...  What does this mean and should he stop doing it all together?     Jo  Monday, June 12th, 2017   Why am i overdosing so easily i had 200 dollars 100 on two differents days an then i did 10 worth an felt like i was overdosing why am i overdosing so easily?     Feeling unwell but i hope that everything is okm  Wednesday, June 28th, 2017   I've broke up with my girlfriend literally. Month Gibbs u started to miss her loads and loads I spoke to her and I asked her. Question if she's slept with someone else while being apart and she told me the truth it's not what I wanted to hear but it is what it is... i suicidal i hardly do cocaine but today I just didn't wanna feel that pain anymore so throughout the night I've sniffed nearly 3.5!grams and have taken a few viagras in ain't gna have a wank or anything i took one before ages ago and frltnny heart rush a lot and I was hoping I'd die quickly... I love the life out of this girl and I can't be without her at all I'd rather just die she doesn't know I feel this kind of way or anything but it's just that I didn't like hearing that she's blocked me on everything and said it's best to stay away from her so I don't feel the pain but I do feel it and I'm gna feel that pain forna very long time I'm scared I won't be able to love someone as much as I loved her it's mad howbibrb feel bad right now ilmyneyes are bluriy and I feel cold as fuck I'm shivering but I'm fine I think will I be alright if I just try and go bed? I've read everyone's post on here and it's true I shouldn't kill myselfmbecahsenkfn of this I'm stirngerbbrhsn this but I'm notnstbthenssme time I feel really diZyb and sweaty I'm going to ring the ambulance after this but tsntime for everyone to wake up and I'm scared to ring anyone for help because if rbey find out inbeenndeeling this way everyone will be worried and I'd look stupid.. I do wish I do die to be fair though I've lost the most important person in my life she means eveeythingntknmennb Shen I don't know what to do? I'm from UK and feel mad like I'm superman but having trouble s breathing snlttlrnnj I'm trynand to sleep but unfit gets worse I'll get help I'll let you people know what Vuagraa and 3.5 of come Dodd I've sniffed a gram within a hour probably in like 3! Lines one after the other     Matt  Saturday, July 1st, 2017   I honestly feel like this post is meant to scare more than to teach about the drug. Of these listed signs of od headache , chills , rise in body temp , hostility , and enhanced reflex are (from my personal experience) are not necessarily signs of od. Ive done a lot of white girl and not just over time in total but in one day. While high ive almost always experienced enhanced reflex and sometimes a rise in body temp. A few times ive done to much in one go and gotten headaches but all i ever did was sit down and chill until it went away. Ive also gotten headaches from the come down and a couple times ive gotten chills while coming down from a large amount aswell as increased hostility. The most white girl ive ever done in a day was almost 3gs over the course of around 10-12 hours. When k finally hit the comedown i experienced a mild headache , chills and toward the end i became a bit more hostile (ive never experienced increased hostility for no reason so coming off its never just had me like a want to just go and start some shit) but only toward things that would normally get a flare from me anyway. So in my personal experience some lf these "signs of od" are just normal side effects from the use of this drug. If you want to do this drug and not have it take you over you gotta be grown and have will power. Learn what itll do to you when on it and how itll treat you when coming off it. If youre not strong enough to do it and have fun then deal with the shity side effects of use after dont even do it. Its already a waste of money as is even if you do control yourself and moderate and if you cant control and moderate yourself or deal with the comedown and all you want when you deal with that comedown is to do more so you dont feel that way anymore then youll just end up blowing most if not all your money and Fucking your life up and possibly actually od'ing from over use. At the end of the day if youre gonna do it be smart , learn about it , never just do anything handed to you Fucking check that shit first (fuckers will lace it with crazy ass Shit) moderate yourself ,     liv  Monday, August 14th, 2017   I've been using coke off and on for about 6 months. once i have the craving, nothing and no one can stop me from doing it. just had friends over for the last 2 days and I've done about 5.5 grams total in 6 days. 2 days ago i only did about .4 grams and didn't sleep for 40 hours because of work, which then i did more coke to make it through the day. tonight i did 1.2 grams by myself in about 6 hours. when i found this article i started freaking out but i scrolled down to the comments and feel less anxious about an overdose. I've done .8 g in one sitting before but never 1.2 g. I'm 125 pounds so i was worried that 1.2 grams would be too much for me, 19 years old and want to stop using it so much because its so expensive but i like it too much to fully commit. only one person could stop me if they knew but i don't have the heart to tell them. i don't know how much my body can handle and i don't know how to fully commit to quitting for good.     Jasper  Monday, August 28th, 2017   I have a friend who they said died of an cocaine overdoes .... how many anagrams of coke would have to be in his system to consider it a cocaine overdose??? He also had heroin, moriphene and other drugs in his system ....     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, August 30th, 2017   Hi Jasper. I'm really sorry for your loss... The anagrams are different for each individual. It depends from the drug dependency level that the person has. You may want to speak with a coroner or another expert about your concerns.     Dece  Tuesday, September 12th, 2017   How can you get cocaine in your system if you have never used this drug. Alot is going on in my life and this is one of those problems. I took 2 drug tests the same day a hair folical and a ua they both say 2 diffrent things. I dont know nothing about cocaine other than it comes from the coca plant. Now i have tobdeal with (cps) child protective services behind this and i dont have my beautifl children with me because of this. Im just asking for a little insight. I have never used this drug nor associate myself with people who does. I love my kids dearly and im trying to get them back.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, September 14th, 2017   Hi Dece. Did you take any medications that may cause false positive? Consult with a laboratory technician and a doctor who can help you find the reasons about false positive. Also, download our free e-book 'The Definitive Guide To Drug Testing' for more information: http://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/     Fred  Monday, October 9th, 2017   Know your limits and when to stop and you won't OD. If you're chasing the high and not getting it but becoming more paranoid, heart racing, sweating etc etc than your overdosing. Have some valium on hand or see a doc.     Sean  Monday, October 16th, 2017   Alright,  I picked up quite a bit, been doing it more and more. Started with about 2 lines a day. Now its progressed to telling myself "one more and thats it" all the time. I had to put It in my safe and give the key to a friend, thats how much I constantly wanted it. It turns highly addictive pretty quick but it needs to be done at the right times and in moderation. If you find yourself doing lines by yourself and doing nothing. you need to put it away like I have... It takes hold,   haven't had an appetite and I have noticeably lost some muscle from lack of eating. I hope this helps someone. Be careful everyone! And anybody depressed put there,  life is all we really got so do your best and enjoy life. There is so much out there besides drugs. Drugs are causing your depression and depression is causing your excessive drug use.  Its a vicious circle but you have to do everything you can to break it.     cokecowboy  Sunday, November 5th, 2017   anyone been in same place?
any advice  
coz  i think im getting a real  addiction for this stuff an could really do with some guidence ..  before   i ruin everything  or maybe even od  fataly     Kathleen  Wednesday, November 29th, 2017   My 24 daughter was found suddenly dead. We were unaware she took cocaine. Her flatmates did not check on Her for 46 hours. The bed was covered in blood. How would she have died and was it painful thankyou     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, November 29th, 2017   Hi Kathleen. I'm really sorry for your loss... I suggest that you consult with a coroner about your issues.     Simon  Tuesday, December 5th, 2017   There's a typo in the last section of this article, to the author who wrote this you wrote, "100 people day per die". What I think you meant to write, "100 people die per day".     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, December 11th, 2017   Hi Simon. Thank you for noticing the typo. We've corrected it. Have a great day.     Mathew  Thursday, December 7th, 2017   The first two weaks is important if you eant leac coke.
Dont drink alcohol or something else.
After 2 weeks you will save     Alan  Monday, December 11th, 2017   I started using cocaine in April of this year and it has intensified to where I just did 8.75g in 3 days, would this be considered an overdose and should I seek help?     Ev  Tuesday, March 6th, 2018   I just fund out my son overdose from cocaine I feel so loss and never knew he was on this drug.I just pray he wasn't in any pain or didn't suffer .This is the third overdose of drugs I hearing about close too me It's crushing     JAE  Tuesday, March 13th, 2018   There was a very traumatic car accident where a person survived but if you seen the car you would not believe that he did. We just seen his records  that they said he consumed a brick of cocaine in his system. But someone that worked up there explained that he was fine and did not have nothing in his system at the time of his accident . So my question is if he consumed a brick , thats like 1000 grams in one consumption  and was in this accident as he was he would not have survived alone because of the drugs. Or how does that work? Like what steps would we need to go thru to show that he does not do drugs in any fashion.     Vivian  Wednesday, March 14th, 2018   someone is dieing in a hospital what is the first thing they do. Could a hospital give a person that come in with Cocaine in their body Percocet and methadone at the same time and if a person is in the hospital for 3days this person should be clear from cocaine specially if they have IV on      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                              Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 173.31.140.150) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 173.31.140.150) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  Can you die from taking cocaine?      Can you die from taking cocaine?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: June 7, 2015   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            Yes, cocaine has triggered fatalities.  Cocaine is a powerfully addictive stimulant drug made from the leaves of the coca plant native to South America. It produces short-term euphoria, energy, and talkativeness, in addition to potentially dangerous physical effects like raising heart rate and blood pressure. But, what are the signs of cocaine overdose and how can you treat it? When do they become life threatening? We provide answers to these questions in the text below. Then, we invite your feedback or questions in the comments section at the end.  Dangers of cocaine ingredients  The danger of cocaine ingredients are far-ranging. They cause sudden death, acute medical and psychiatric illness. Physiological effects of cocaine include increased blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, insomnia, and loss of appetite. The widespread abuse of highly pure street cocaine has led to many severe adverse health consequences related to cocaine overdose such as:   cardiac arrhythmias  convulsions  death ischemic heart conditions  sudden cardiac arrest  stroke   In some users, the long-term use of inhaled cocaine has led to a unique respiratory syndrome, and chronic snorting of cocaine has led to the erosion of the upper nasal cavity.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    Serious adverse side effects of cocaine  In general, medical complications of cocaine reflect the intense sympathomimetic activities of cocaine itself, also known as a ‘sympathetic neural storm’. Cardiovascular complications include arrhythmias and sudden death, acute myocardial infarction, myocarditis, dissecting aneurysm and bowel infarction. Neurological complications include seizure, intracerebral haemorrhage and brain injury due to hyperthermia and/or seizures, and headache. Psychiatric complications include acute anxiety or panic, as well as paranoid psychosis.  While the serious side effects of cocaine can be physical or psychological (affecting body and mind), other effects of cocaine include those to society. These can include:   criminal activity  infectious complications  reproductive disturbances  societal disruption (including child neglect, abuse and lost job productivity)  trauma   Signs of cocaine overdose  Fatal instances of cocaine overdose have been reported often due to the other major systemic effects of cocaine overdose (myocardial infarction, stroke, multiorgan failure). There is no specific therapy or antidote for acute cocaine toxicity. Experience of, and exposure to, overdose are not rare events. How much cocaine does it take to OD ? This you cannot predict. Cocaine users need to be aware of the possibility and nature of overdose, and that cocaine overdose can occur irrespective of method of use. In fact, there is a need to emphasize the potential danger of combining cocaine with other drugs and health officials are working to educate the public about these risks.    Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   How to treat cocaine overdose In cases of cocaine overdose, a health care provider will typically measure and monitor the patient’s vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will then be addressed as appropriate. For example, a class of medications called benzodiazepines may be given to calm slow a rapid heart beat, and lower blood pressure, and treat anxiety and/or agitation. These medicines include diazepam and lorazepam. Further, fluids maybe be administered through a vein.  Heart, brain, muscle and kidney complications will be treated with additional medications. Long-term treatment to address the reason for cocaine overdose requires drug counseling in combination with medical therapy. FDA warnings about cocaine Presently, there are no FDA-approved medications that treat cocaine addiction. Consequently, NIDA is working aggressively to identify and test new medications to treat cocaine addiction safely and effectively . Several medications marketed for other diseases (e.g., vigabatrin, modafinil, tiagabine, disulfiram, and topiramate) show promise and have been reported to reduce cocaine use in controlled clinical trials. Among these, disulfiram (used to treat alcoholism) has produced the most consistent reductions in cocaine abuse. Are you taking too much cocaine? Help for cocaine use or misuse People addicted to cocaine might take bigger doses or take it more often to get high. A cocaine high usually doesn’t last very long. So people take it again and again to try to keep feeling good. 12-step support groups, such as Cocaine Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, have helped many people addicted to cocaine. Alternative groups such as SMART Recovery are also an option for those who do not like the 12-step approach. However, if you’re taking too much cocaine…it may be time to stop. Reach out for help by calling out hotline number. Questions about cocaine fatalities If you have any further questions about the danger of using cocaine, please share them in the comments section. We will do our best to provide you with a quick, personal answer. Reference sources: DEA: Drug of abuse LiverTox: Cocaine NCBI: Non-fatal cocaine overdose among injecting and non-injecting cocaine users in Sydney, Australia MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication NIH: Signs of Cocaine Abuse and Addiction NIH: What treatments are effective for cocaine abusers? MedlinePlus: Cocaine withdrawal NCBI: How toxic is cocaine? NIH: Cocaine  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?  February 2nd, 2014      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      How much cocaine is too much?  March 12th, 2017      Is cocaine addictive?  December 5th, 2012      How does crack work?  October 18th, 2012   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     regina  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   My friend is so strong out cocaine don't no what to do ..     Maggie  Wednesday, December 23rd, 2015   Is injecting 2 g of cocaine fatal (in a never-before drug abuser)? By how much percent?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 29th, 2015   Hi, Maggie. We are here to help you with an addiction problems, not to give fatal dosage (which is different for each human body). Please, reconsider what you are going to do, and think about everyone who cares and loves you. You're not alone!     Roderick  Thursday, October 13th, 2016   Hi
Injecting cocaine is something stupid and the perfect recipe to die.You can snort cocaine but not shot this crap in your body....     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 21st, 2016   Hi Roderick. It is possible to inject cocaine. Many users dissolve it into water and then inject it.     Megan  Tuesday, February 7th, 2017   I have a friend back home who did 3.5 of cocaine and passed. I do not know much about cocaine, and my other friend is saying he doesn't think it is enough to kill someone. Is it possible it was laced with something or taken with other drugs?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, March 8th, 2017   Hi Megan. I'm really sorry for your loss... The causes of death should be put in the toxicology report. So, if the cocaine was laced with something else or your friend has taken other drugs, then they would be written down in the report.     James  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   How can you get help and for free after work hours like 6:00 CT     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, April 24th, 2017   Hi James. Call the number you see on the website to get in touch with a trusted treatment consultant. The helpline is free, confidential, and available 24/7.     Sarah  Monday, July 17th, 2017   What are the effects on the body when u use small amounts over a long period of time?     Danielle  Thursday, October 26th, 2017   I am engaged and i just found out my Fiance has used cocaine i dont where he gets it we dont live together he claims he spent $20 dollars on it. And back in 2012 he used it and snorted it that time and this time both times gave him a sinus infection but both these times he told me he got a cold from me now what do i do. Just a year or to ago i found put he had been lying to me about his past. So i been with him for 7 years i love him so much. Not to mention i have same problems with my family only not cocaine related pills related help me. Im scared and i dont want know one to know     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, November 9th, 2017   Hi Danielle. I suggest that you look into the CRAFT model for families and interventions. One NGO called Allies in Recovery has some online reading that can help: http://alliesinrecovery.net/about-craft/     David  Thursday, February 8th, 2018   Are you serious 2 grams.  You would die absolutely.
That’s way to much.  I was addicted to needles for 4 years heroin coke and meth and am now clean for over a year.
I would never do over half a gram of coke and even that might scare me.  It’s not Advil you don’t need 3 to feel it.  This stuff is extremely effective in small doses.     F A  Sunday, February 25th, 2018   I am so broken hearted about my husband's sudden death.  He had returned to cocaine use after more than a year of being clean.  Before he died, he had again become paranoid, suspicious of our family, and selfish - claiming we weren't doing enough to demonstrate our love and appreciation of him..

I was very much still in love with him after 11 years.  I was living out tough love with him to encourage him to make a change but he wasn't listening yet and ran out of time.  If I hadn't started making good decisions I would have been not only devastated by the pain of lost love but crushed with being unprepared financially and in having a safety net to carry on.  

I've never used drugs so I continue to search for understanding.

My advice is to get out of such a relationship ASAP.  It will only lead to extreme loss and heartache.  Heal yourself.  You can't save someone until they are ready.  

Ironically, my deceased husband would often say, "once a person has made up there minds to hurt themselves, there's nothing you can do to stop them.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, February 27th, 2018   Hi F A. I'm sorry for your loss...      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                              Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 107.77.85.130) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 107.77.85.130) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  How much cocaine is too much?      How much cocaine is too much?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: March 12, 2017   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            A cocaine overdose (OD) depends on a few factors:   purity levels of the drug  amounts used  an individual’s state of health state   While cocaine overdose is almost always unintentional, some suicidal attempts have been know to happen while on cocaine. Accidental overdoses can happen when you take cocaine with a greater purity, in large quantities, or after a period of abstinence. Also, a common unintentional cocaine overdose involves mixing cocaine with alcohol or with other drugs simultaneously.  But how can you know when you have crossed the line? Is there a way to find out how much cocaine is too much? Continue reading here to learn ore about the risks of taking too much cocaine. We’ll also review some basic information on how to prevent undesired consequences. Then, join us at the end and send us your questions and concerns. We will try to answer any legitimate questions personally and promptly.  Cocaine strengths  The strength of cocaine usually depends on purity levels. Purity can vary from 20% – 90%, with a recorded average of 28%.  The drug is first extracted in labs, distributed to smugglers, sold to distributors, then passed down to dealers. Along the way, cocaine is cut and diluted many times to maximize profits by adding weight with other substances. So, the cocaine you buy is only a small part pure drug, and the rest is made up of sugars or additives such as:   glucose  lactose and/ or mannitol  baking soda  corn starch  Vitamin C powde  talcum powder   …or related chemicals such as lidocaine or benzocaine.  You can check cocaine’s level of purity only by testing it in a lab or using specific protocols. For example, cocaine purity drug tests can be purchased online. Although they don’t provide results regarding the the adulterants used to cut the sample, they can provide crucial information about the strength of the drug, and help you prevent unintentional overdoses.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    How much cocaine is safe?  We feel obligated to warn you that in reality, no amount of cocaine is safe. Even if you don’t use too much and OD, cocaine can negatively impact your physical and mental health in many ways over time.  How much cocaine is safe to take and prevent an overdose? It is difficult to say how much cocaine is safe for you to use without OD-ing. It really depends on your level of tolerance to cocaine . Also, the intensity of cocaine’s effects are different among users. Another reason why the safe doses of cocaine can not be determined comes from the fact that cocaine is a highly unpredictable drug with unique multiple actions on the body.  Q: So, how much cocaine can you take at once?  A: Typical doses of cocaine are in the range from 30 mg and up to 70 mg. But as users develop tolerance they tend to use more and increase their doses and go up to 1 g.  How much cocaine to overdose?  How much cocaine amount of cocaine to overdose? Cocaine overdose can occur in several ways, not all involving the dose quantity, level of tolerance, and purity. Cocaine overdose can occur if you:   Take too much cocaine.  Use a concentrated form of cocaine.  Use cocaine in hot weather due to dehydration.  Mix cocaine with alcohol and other substances.   The consequences of a cocaine overdose include:   seizures  brain haemorrhage  kidney failure  heart attack  stroke     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   How to know if I have gone too far with cocaine? Cocaine addicts might take lager doses of cocaine and use it more frequently to get high. However, these sought-after effects of cocaine are short lasting. The main reason why addicts take it repeatedly is because they want the pleasure to last. But, using to much cocaine nearly always results in addiction. Still, there are many ways to get help if you’ve gone too far. Here are some places to start: 12-step support groups , such as Cocaine Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, have helped many people addicted to cocaine.  Alternative group s such as SMART Recovery are also an option for those who do not like the 12-step approach.  Your doctor can help you quit at home, or recommend a detox clinic and a treatment center if s/he determines you require more intensive medical care.  SAMHSA’s Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator can help you detect licensed detoxification, outpatient or inpatient treatment facilities in your area. Or, you can reach out for help by calling our 24-7 hotline number. Call 877-516-8929 and get connected with a compassionate operator who understands problems with cocaine. We’re here to help…day or night. How much cocaine is fatal? The estimated minimum dose of cocaine that is considered to be lethal is 1.2 g, but users with hypersensitivity to cocaine have died from as little as 30 mg. Some rare cases of cocaine addicts who have a considerable tolerance, reported use of up to 5 g of cocaine daily. However, this would be an extremely fatal dose for most individuals. How much cocaine should I take? Given the fact that cocaine is a highly addictive and dangerous illicit drug, there are is no safe dose that is recommended for your use. When taken in high doses cocaine causes extreme agitation, paranoia and aggression. The unpleasant physical effects from a high dose of cocaine usually include:  dizziness  hallucinations  headache  heart pain  nausea  tremors  vomiting  Cocaine is also known as a drug which caused many deaths even after the first use. Moreover, it’s unpredictable purity levels can make it a very dangerous drug. Questions about too much cocaine Do you still have questions about the safe levels of cocaine? Please leave your questions in the designated section below. We do our best to respond to your inquiries with a personal and prompt response. Reference sources: VIC: Cocaine  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?  February 2nd, 2014      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      How long does cocaine stay in your system?  November 16th, 2011      Is cocaine addictive?  December 5th, 2012      Cocaine  July 4th, 2016   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     Zachary  Monday, March 13th, 2017   Hello! The article is quite informative and answers provided to the questions are helpful too.

 "Given the fact that cocaine is a highly addictive and dangerous illicit drug, there are is no safe dose that is recommended for your use" This is a very strong point made. Cocaine in any type of dose is indeed dangerous and very addictive.Second, it would be helpful if you add more details about physical effects of overdose of cocaine. 

Regards
Zachary     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, March 21st, 2017   Hi Zachary. Thank you for your input. We had explained cocaine OD symptoms in another, older article. See here: http://drug.addictionblog.org/cocaine-overdose-how-much-amount-of-cocaine-to-overdose/     Simon  Tuesday, March 14th, 2017   The best amount of cocaine to take is none😀     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, March 16th, 2017   Yes, Simon :) We totally agree with you!     SLO  Thursday, March 16th, 2017   This post is very very useful. People basically young generation are getting addict, and the number is increasing at dangerous rate. So this type of articles are always welcome  to stand against drug addiction.     Pete  Tuesday, July 25th, 2017   I take a half of a $20 of cocaine everyday during my work hours and save the other half for next day,If that to much?     Brad  Thursday, October 12th, 2017   I've smoked about 4 grams throughout 7 days. I'm 6 feet tall 180 pounds and I metabolize things fast. Is that enough use to make the drug linger in my urine longer?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 20th, 2017   Hi Brad. Cocaine can be detected 2-4 days after the last intake. However, this detection period is longer for long-term and/or binge users. If you want to learn more about drug testing, download our e-book here: http://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/     Natalie  Friday, January 12th, 2018   My Husband passed away from fatal cocaine toxicity and I feel like I need to know how as he hadn’t taken any for a while. Would he of known he had taken too much.
Please help a grieving wife     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, January 17th, 2018   Hi Natalie. I'm really sorry for your loss... I suggest that you consult with a coroner or a toxicologist about your issue.     Kiki  Monday, March 26th, 2018   Hi!!! I'm 17 years old and have taken cocaine 4 days in a. Now and was wondering de4ing if I could be addicted or close to overdose?      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                        Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Rally Point   1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info           Hope Canyon Recovery   2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info           Sober Techniques   610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Rally Point    1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info       Hope Canyon Recovery    2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info       Sober Techniques    610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Rally Point   1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info           Hope Canyon Recovery   2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info           Sober Techniques   610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Rally Point    1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info       Hope Canyon Recovery    2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info       Sober Techniques    610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Rally Point   1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info           Hope Canyon Recovery   2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info           Sober Techniques   610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Rally Point    1130 Elizabeth Avenue West Palm Beach, Florida 33401  More Info       Hope Canyon Recovery    2821 Lange Ave San Diego, California 92122  More Info       Sober Techniques    610 Avenida Avapulco San Clemente, California 92672  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Desert Hope   2465 East Twain Ave Las Vegas, Nevada 89121  More Info           A Forever Recovery   216 St. Mary's Lake Rd. Battle Creek, Michigan 49017  More Info           A Better Today Recovery Services   10609 North Hayden Rd. Ste. 8106 Scottsdale, Arizona 85260  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Desert Hope    2465 East Twain Ave Las Vegas, Nevada 89121  More Info       A Forever Recovery    216 St. Mary's Lake Rd. Battle Creek, Michigan 49017  More Info       A Better Today Recovery Services    10609 North Hayden Rd. Ste. 8106 Scottsdale, Arizona 85260  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                     Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Snorting - chance of overdosing when using coke for the first time  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by adamwebb12 , May 30, 2011 .            2 / 5 ,        chance of overdosing when using coke for the first time   2  5   1 votes  1 vote          May 30, 2011    #1             adamwebb12  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  28     Joined:  May 21, 2011    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from sweden           hi I was wondering whether there are any chances of overdosing when snorting  cocaine for the first time..any is it easy to handle coke ?you don't trip do you?                       May 30, 2011    #2             shroooom  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   114      Messages:  160     Joined:  Nov 19, 2009    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from england           You will be fine if he just has a few lines for the night.  It's a stimulant  drug , so it's not really going to make You trip out (unless he takes loads and OD).   Coke is pretty easy to handle. Over here, coke is never pure unless You pays a high price. SWIM steers clear of coke . High price + short addictive high = not a great deal in his opinion.                       May 30, 2011    #3             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.           Has adamwebb12 used any other substances? No, you don't trip at all, it would be difficult to compare it to anything unless we know what you've taken before.  There is a cocaine  FAQ at the top of this message board, check it out. I'd say coke 's effects are euphoria , energy, increased confidence, increased sociability/talkativeness.  To be safe stick to just a few small lines your first time. Don't go line for line with your friends if they are experienced users.                       Jun 1, 2011    #4             adamwebb12  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  28     Joined:  May 21, 2011    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from sweden              EscapeDummy said: ↑   Has adamwebb12 used any other substances? No, you don't trip at all, it would be difficult to compare it to anything unless we know what you've taken before.  There is a cocaine  FAQ at the top of this message board, check it out. I'd say coke 's effects are euphoria , energy, increased confidence, increased sociability/talkativeness.  To be safe stick to just a few small lines your first time. Don't go line for line with your friends if they are experienced users. Click to expand...   Yes iv done weed,hash, opium , benzos and a few other downers..iv never done an upper in my life..is it ok if i go and chill with my female friends after i do a line or 2..they won't be able to tell that i'm on coke will they?                       Jun 1, 2011    #5             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.           Depends on the person. If you guys are drinking it probably isn't too likely that they can tell. However some people really act different when on coke , it depends on the person. And yeah, its a sensation totally different than any downer, none of those hvae similar effects.      Last edited: Jun 5, 2011                    Jun 1, 2011    #6             Herbal Healer 019  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   529      Messages:  1,126     Joined:  Sep 24, 2008    from france           People will be able to tell your on an upper for sure. Assuming its good coke .  The first time I did coke he was already drunk and everyone else @ the party he was at was drunk or high on weed and most of them immediately knew I was on coke even though he thought he was all slick with playing it off.  I wouldnt worry about ODing either; if you're just snorting it (as opposed to shooting it) I would find it highly unlikely that you'd overdose (assuming you dont go nuts and do tons)                       Jun 5, 2011    #7             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.              Herbal Healer 019 said: ↑   People will be able to tell your on an upper for sure. Assuming its good coke .  The first time I did coke he was already drunk and everyone else @ the party he was at was drunk or high on weed and most of them immediately knew I was on coke even though he thought he was all slick with playing it off.  I wouldnt worry about ODing either; if you're just snorting it (as opposed to shooting it) I would find it highly unlikely that you'd overdose (assuming you dont go nuts and do tons) Click to expand...   I think it really does depend on the person. I tend to "show" drugs a lot more than other people, but I'm already a chatterbox energetic, and chain smoke at parties while drunk, so most people who weren't good friends weren't able to know if I was on coke . I know people who don't really give off the vibe of being on coke at parties. I've never racked line after line of scarface lines though, I'm sure someone who knows what to look for will know almost immediately.                       Oct 1, 2011    #8             dennis1999  Newbie      Reputation Points:   15      Messages:  19     Joined:  Sep 4, 2011    from The Netherlands           depends on how much u take depends on ur health, so first a total body check up lol depends what they cut it with, maybe you are allergic to it or like like in holland they cut it with  atropine hehe you know better take medicines they are tested like adderall or dexdrine or ritalin  ritalin is like coke put 6 under your tongue or plugging 20 mg ritalin niceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee                          Feb 9, 2013    #9             Willyzh  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,026      Messages:  1,096     Joined:  Dec 28, 2010    from U.S.A.              dennis1999 said: ↑   depends on how much u take depends on ur health, so first a total body check up lol depends what they cut it with, maybe you are allergic to it or like like in holland they cut it with  atropine hehe Click to expand...   All these things are very true, I was just thinking about them in this thread: https://drugs-forum.com/forum/showthread.php?p=1252197#post1252197     dennis1999 said: ↑   you know better take medicines they are tested like adderall or dexdrine or ritalin  ritalin is like coke put 6 under your tongue... Click to expand...   DO NOT put 6 adderall under your tongue!!!!!!!!!  One person I know told me this: "called my doctor. He said anything over 80mg is severe and an actual overdose. The highest prescription for ADDerall is 80mg. My symptoms took nearly two full days to diminish."  Since they usually come in 20 or 30 mg's, 6 can kill you. If you are lucky and you got 6 5's you'd be fine.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Tags:   snorting drugs        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                             Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - has anyone here OD'd from Cocaine  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by jimmyjames35 , Apr 28, 2013 .            4.33333 / 5 ,        has anyone here OD'd from Cocaine   4.33333  5   3 votes  3 votes     Page 1 of 2   1  2  Next >          Apr 28, 2013    #1             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           i would like to hear from people who have Od'd . what was the ROA? amount used? were their warning signs? Did u know what was happening? it's a really thought and i would shock people with my tolerance and the kinda lines i would do, going thru balls in a night by myself but i never once was worried or felt i was in any danger of ODing, however now i'm IVing and i can totally see how someone can OD. i assume the largest percentage cocaine overdoses are from IV i'm just guessing tho. i'm pretty new to it so i don't always get prefect results from every shot. but when i do and i really loaded it up it's an amazing fealing but kinda scarry. i'd just like to hear from people who have been there  thanks jimmy                       Apr 28, 2013    #2             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           Iv is definatly the ROA that is the easiest to od on. Once x amount of the drug is in your vein, there is nothing you can do put wait and hope it wasnt too much. With smoking, you will know, before you exhale if the hit was too much and you can exhale much of it out, minimizing( somewhat) a possible overdose. Both roa's are best started with low doses.                       Apr 28, 2013    #3             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           yeah i also smoked and even though my heart would sometimes feel like it was gonna leap out my chest, the rush is so different with iv. i wrote a post about this earlier because i don't understand how so many people, and just dummies, drug educated and informed people on forums like this equate the high from smoking and iv as similar when they feel worlds apart to me. to get back on topic the thing that's so unique to iv and also the thing that scares me is when it hits hard you nearly pass out dissiness, buzz in ears, it's like your whole body feels like its wavering in and out like a funhouse mirror. i don't get heart beating out my chest like with crack . anyway when that wave hits you after a shot and you don't know if that's the peak it can be a scary moment. so then you tell yourself to take a smaller shot next but that feels like a let down. its crazy because before you know it with shooting and with smoking even more so. you are chasing a whole other animal. when you snort was are chasing that cocaine high, with this shit im just after that rush. it basically feels like your overloading your system and its causeing malfunction that we get off on. kinda sick if you think about it                       Apr 28, 2013    #4             source  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,359      Messages:  1,188     Joined:  Apr 24, 2010    from england              jimmyjames35 said: ↑   when it hits hard you nearly pass out dissiness, buzz in ears, it's like your whole body feels like its wavering in and out like a funhouse mirror....  .... you are chasing a whole other animal. when you snort was are chasing that cocaine high, with this shit im just after that rush. it basically feels like your overloading your system and its causeing malfunction that we get off on. kinda sick if you think about it Click to expand...   Great description of injecting too much cocaine and how it feels. Like you say, chasing that high is never going to amount to much, and as bad as some overdoses on cocaine are, we still chase even that high.  You are completely correct about overloading your system and almost getting off on the destruction of our own body. It's the crazy 'pushing it to the limit and beyond' attitude that some of us addicts have, where we are not simply happy with a smooth ride, we need to push it as far as we can to see how bumpy it gets. Self-destructive for sure, and the risk that so many of us take in pursuit of the ultimate rush, or ultimate high.                       Apr 28, 2013    #5             Willyzh  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,026      Messages:  1,096     Joined:  Dec 28, 2010    from U.S.A.           The thing I noticed the most from a shot that was too loaded was suprising- intense fear. Dying from cocaine wouldn't be a fun way to go. There's no euphoria overload there. Your body knows instantly that it has gotten too much and the pleasure is completely replaced by intense fear of dying.  I don't think it's psychological. It seems very physical. Before you even know you have taken too much, fear starts creeping in, bodily weakness, knees weak, vision fading with redout/tunnel vision beginning. You can't respond well to anything, and it's not just being unable to talk cuz you're zooted- you can't even think of words. Not geeking, fading. Your hearing starts to fade and change with buzzing, ringing and like your head is in a metal box, and then if it's a bad one, fading too.  If you are lucky, friends are there with a cold cloth to your head, not yelling a bunch of crazy shit at you that makes the panicky state worse. Sitting calmly breathing deep and concentrating on staying conscious is about all you can do. SHooting coke is one of the most dangerous things a person can do in the drug world, IMO. If your arms aren't total pincushions by next day noon and you're lucky to be alive, you'll probably do it next weekend too. Idk how I was resistant to coke  addiction . I guess cuz the high is so pointless and fleeting. When all I wanna do is have sex I'd rather be able to. :s                       Apr 29, 2013    #6             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           In my life their have been alot of people say that crack has a completely different high than powder cocaine . They would say i don't like crack because its a mellow high, whereas powder is an amped up high. I would alway counter with how much of either one have you done?? Both can be either high, crack cut with the least amount of baking soda possible, will blow your sox off and have you ready to take on the world but there is nothing jittery about it. Its almost like a natural feeling of superior rage, excitement and numbing of the senses. You wont be sitting after a good hit of some rock like that.  Also, what i believe in my life to be the purest powder ive ever snorted wasn't super ampy, it wasnt mellow either. That was really the best cocaine , rock or powder, i ever did. I did like 4 or 5 small lines in about an hour. It actually was real scary during the first hour. I did 2 small lines back to back, they were small because the fella who had the stuff told me to cut the lines i first cut out, in half. He said the last thing he needed was a white boy to OD on his couch! i took his advice. 2 small lines had my face nose and throat sooo numb i couldn't feel myself swallow.  Let me tell ya dude, if you cant feel your self swallowing, its feels like your choking. I was very afraid for awhile. Then as the numbness wore off enough for me to swallow again, it was such a clean amped rush, but i didnt care if we did anything, i sure didnt feel like getting into a fight, things that previous ampy coke made me want to do. This stuff was like controlled rage that was total euphoria . No anxiety or wanting of another line until 3 or 4 hours after my last line.  Point being, i have done crack , both ampy and mellow. Most of the time crack was a mellow stimulant high. I have also done coke that is mellow and ampy. The ampy coke was an awesome buzz, the only times i thought i was going  to OD, but it was always a short lived, replaced by bad anxiety and depression , and once the numbness wore off, your nose and soft pallet would hurt so bad. Most mellow coke i did, wouldnt even cause me to pace. I would just sit on the couch all night long doing lines, nose would be slobbering everywhere, but it was always clear. There would be no anxiety or depression , i would just sit there all night and think the most euphoric thoughts to myself, staring off into space. The urge to do more, would only come if i did a small amount and when it did, it wasnt panic and jittery.  I have smoked and snorted some really good cocaine but it was the jittery trash coke that had me close to feeling like im gonna OD. I always wondered why this was.What was it cut with. My face would go white as a ghost, my insides would get cold but i would be sweating balls and i would usually start dry heaving multiple times in a row.  I never felt like i was going to OD on a more pure product?? Usually the better the quality the more i could do, the only difference was starting off small and work my way up to more and more. With decent grade i would start out huge and work my way down to average. Hits or lines. Crack never once made me feel even remotely like i was going to OD, and i used to take massive hits and hold them in as long as possible.      Last edited: May 2, 2013                    Apr 29, 2013    #7             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           All this time it was cocaethylene I enjoy, by combining with alcohol . When I do coke on its own I get paronoid when I redose. Even though I think I'm going to die, as soon as it wears off I'm back in the same boat quickly be redosing. So stupid. I find snorting more intense and hits me almost right away and wears off after ten minutes.  I find smoking mellow. Not intense. And if i smoke enough I'm actually content. I only want more after a small bit, if i only had a few hits. The thing I like most about smoking is the taste.                       Apr 30, 2013    #8             Fight Club  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   481      Messages:  174     Joined:  Sep 27, 2007    from U.S.A.           Hey - so nobody really answered your questions; I will.  NIK's first OD happened 4-5 months after he started IVing  cocaine .  After buying street coke for most of this time, he hooked up with a connect in So. Cali that had FAR SUPERIOR product.  First night shooting, he gets the wah-wahs.  On his hands and knees trying to maintain balance as the world goes back-and-forth, back-and-forth.  Wisely, he hung it up for the night.  Next night, back seat of the car, after shooting for a couple hours, he loads and fires .5g, but loses it before he's half-way through. Starts shaking violently, then goes blank.  Had a grand mal seizure with cardiac arrest, and was kept alive by CPR until EMTs arrived.  NIK learned to measure his doses carefully and time his shots to avoid the above scenario since then (2002) but still pushed the limit on many occasions where he did the chicken dance and or "fished out" where he lost motor control of his limbs for up to 20 minutes, but remained conscious.  NIK gave up IV cocaine (and all drugs, including alcohol ) because he liked this stuff way too much, but liked living more, and knew he couldn't have both.  He has been continuously clean for over three years now.  If you are going to continue to push the limits, which, I know you are, follow NIK's advice and stay alive:  1. Don't shoot coke alone 2. Premix all your shots.  5-10 mil of H20 per 3.5 g cocaine 3. Preload your shots.  It will keep you from loading a "really fat one" when you cant see straight. 4. Release tie after you register - push 1/2 then count to 10 before you push the rest.  Be safe.  Have fun  FC                       Apr 30, 2013    #9             Julya  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   125      Messages:  18     Joined:  Apr 18, 2013    from Canada           The way FightClub describes it is really accurate. I had the same thing happening to me, also from mistakes with the dosage while iv-ing. I'm ashame to say it happened more than once . I agree with all the tips he gives in his post.  I would only add to be careful even with pre-loaded shots if you are on a looooong binge. After a few day without sleep or food, what would be a small shot tolerance wise can be alot for your messed up body. The tip he gives as #4 is particulary important in those times. Its always better to take care of yourself by sleeping and eating every day so you should always aim for that, but I know you know that.  Have fun !                        Apr 30, 2013    #10             techn1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  4     Joined:  Jun 16, 2009    from U.S.A.           Has happened to me twice while IV'ing. First time was after a weekend binge with two other people.We scored our third 8th from the same person, and even though the first shot was supposed to be small to "check it out", it was very different stuff and I don't even remember finishing the push. No angels or family members or any of that shit,,just there one second gone the next, nothing in between. Woke up to my future wife doing CPR,and just a few minutes before the cops showing up,because obviously my two friends made quite a bit of noise between freaking out and trying to get me back. After the cops finally left I remember being extremely pissed off because they flushed the 'ball when the cops got there. Second time was almost same circumstance except I let my uncle make up a shot and he split it in two,,not taking into consideration he had 20 years more use experience than me, and he weighed in at about 290 and I at about 125 lbs. Once again don't think I even finished the plunge before I no longer existed. Woke up in a cold shower getting CPR again. That was the weekend I quit shooting any drugs.Smoked and snorted after that for many years,now other than my pain meds that I pretty much only use as I should, haven't touched anything for 3 years.                       Apr 30, 2013    #11             ld1980  Newbie      Reputation Points:   45      Messages:  22     Joined:  Mar 7, 2012    from U.S.A.           I always wondered why it was such a concern to OD on Coke ....I have snorted half ounces of good stuff over a couple days and never felt sick or close to ODing.  I even blasted it for a period, and remember one day I IVd an eight ball in a couple hours.  Same thing - no negative effects other than the usual.  Probably has alot to do with your genetics, general health, and whether or not there are other underlying cardiac issues, I would think.                       Apr 30, 2013    #12             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           thank you all for the advise. i'm doing tonight or this morning what i hope is my last run( although i said that Friday) i'm doing a lot of things i shouldn't. for starters. i'v been alone every time ive shot. this is because i'm not a kid whose experimenting with his buddy's, i'm a grown man who is ashamed to let anyone know he's shooting. the is a huge stigma to it. people who snort take the opportunity to feel better than someone for a change and non users will probably try to have you committed. i told one friend and he freaked out. so i'm always alone when using and it's crazy because i'm actually prepared to o'd in some sick way because i make sure to have the phone next to me I've even gone to the extent to punch in 911 and wait to see if i need to press dial, but from the sounds of it from everyone i wouldn't get that opportunity. it also sounds like you would have died had no one been around i completely relate to that fear when a big one first hits you, it's not fun but after a few mins when u know you're ok it almost feels like you beat death and that's a weird rush in itself. i smoked years ago for a short period and it was insane. iv doesn't get my heart racing, but smoking did and the comedown was the worst feeling in the world. but the rush was so intense, especially the first hit of the night that you craved it all week, that's all i could think about. even today when i see a movie and someone is smoking crack i actually hold my breath with them, its crazy, and for a long time i would almost get high explain crack o someone. i need to stop iv'ing, it's too intense. I only started because i had done so much damage to my nose i couldnt use it anymore, i didn't realize what kind of door i was opening up. i have never felt this kind of fear getting high. i was a hardcore meth user and it completely destroyed my life but i never felt like i was gonna OD and i was high at all times. literally . when i first started iv i was doing a shot then going out and snorting the rest of the night, then come home maybe if i had some left and shoot again, maybe. now i'm not going anywhere. i'm just in a room alone fucking the shit out of my arms. that's the other concern i have. i suck at this and i have terrible veins, that i didn't help  by not knowing what i was doing at first. I've got a better handle but i still miss like crazy and have numb or painful hands and arms for days, that's scary too. and i haven't really given any time to fully heal cause i'm back out in like 2 3 days. anyway i got a ball tonight. hopefully i can call it a wrap withouttryingto finish it but that's not really my style. thank you for the advise really  jimmyjames35 added 13 Minutes and 36 Seconds later...  i do have a question. when u find a vein that works do you keep hitting it or keep trying new spots  jimmyjames35 added 21 Minutes and 21 Seconds later...  how many shots in a night is excessive . how many needles do you have ready for a session because and i know this is a big no no, i don't know the extent of how bad it is to do but i only start with a pack of ten and i always run out and reuse. never the same one 3 times tho. how bad is this really?      Last edited: Apr 30, 2013                    Apr 30, 2013    #13             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           Getting yourself in the same vein over and over because it's a "good vein" is a big mistake. I know some H addicts that take all day to hit themselves only after a year of IV, because they didn't rotate sites. But surely it's applies to injecting any drug .                       Apr 30, 2013    #14             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           maca1 thanks for tip. what happens to the vein exactly.. I've heard people mention collapsed veins but i don't really know what that is. i have been rotating like a mf since starting a few weeks ago. i feel likes it's been longer. that's cause i'm going two days and in bed for 2 days it feels. i get some strength back and i'm shooting again. these days are hard to keep track of when your not doing anything elsde but drugs and recuping. its crazy. but i think i made a mistake rotating so much in the beginning. i don't have many veins and i'm missing like crazy. and my arms are a mess. now i  have a better idea what i'm doing but now i have to work around the botch job i did. i was doing goodnin my hsnds but a few misses and its a lot of pain and scary numbness. not to mention and i probably could have killed myself. i didn't take air out of syringes or like up bevel my first maybe 2 sessions.. there was crazy air that i just pumped into my viens. and it swelled up my arms. some of it is still lingering cause i put air in my best viens at the crease of my arm. a little worried about that                       Apr 30, 2013    #15             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           The vein swells and the vein closes up, stopping the flow of blood. It's mainly caused by the damage done to the vein by the needle. Using new needles and rotating sites is what you should keep in mind. It can be temporary or permanent. The veins can swell from the pressure from pulling back on the plunger. Obviously let any swelling subside.                       Apr 30, 2013    #16             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           did u say pulling back on the plunger causes this issue? i thought swelling was from pushing  jimmyjames35 added 19 Minutes and 18 Seconds later...  one more question because i'm not sure what are the advantages or disadvantages to adding more water in your shots. if the shot has the same amount of cocaine what is adding more or less water affecting      Last edited: Apr 30, 2013                    May 1, 2013    #17             Julya  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   125      Messages:  18     Joined:  Apr 18, 2013    from Canada              jimmyjames35 said: ↑   how many shots in a night is excessive . how many needles do you have ready for a session because and i know this is a big no no, i don't know the extent of how bad it is to do but i only start with a pack of ten and i always run out and reuse. never the same one 3 times tho. how bad is this really? Click to expand...   There is no way to tell how many shots in a night is excessive for you, as we all have different body/tolerence/quality of the product. Trust yourself. Some people will do a 3.5 in a few hours, other will be ok with 1 g in the same time frame, there is no rule.  As for your needles problem, you can go to your needle exchange and explain what you just told us here. I went there and explained that I was often running out of fresh pins. They really understand those kinda things. They hooked me up with a box of 100 brand new and 2 yellow bins for disposal. Since then when I have about 10-15 left I go back with my bins and they give me another 100 box for them.  You know re-using is very bad. They have that poster at my exchange that shows you a zoom of a needle that been use 3 times. The thing looks like a cactus. Not only new rigs are a must for your health, but you'll have an easier time sticking yourself. There is nothing bad about them, really haha.  Be safe !                        May 3, 2013    #18             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           thanks julya. i have never been to a needle exchange in ny, not sure where they are, i should look into that. i just go drug store but they only can sell you 1 pack without a prescription. i could just go another spot for a pack but i havent had that foresight yet. i keep thinking 10 is enough and by the time i realize im running out its too late, the pharmacies are closed. also then i should ask what if you miss a few times, isnt that the same as reusing, should i just dump it back in spoon after a miss. i guess that would be the suggestion but i doubt anyone is that dillagent or maybe after some time you dont really miss much anymore. i gotta be more on top of being clean and careful. the problem is like a lot of drug abusers what has brought us down this road is the fact that we don't really care enough about ourselves to take precautions, thats how we got here. It's really ironic. i don't want to speak for others it's just something i feel about a lot of hard drug users. this is the first ROA that i've ever done that requires so much work and such a crazy learning curve. i guess part of the problem for me is i didn't have a partner or some buddy to show me the ropes. i decided alone to experiment and i've learned the hard way some of what to do and not to do, luckily not too hard a lesson though like i now know can be the consequences of doing things the wrong way. for that i owe this website and all the users who have been so helpful in helping me to fix my mistakes. i made the horrible decision to go down this path but you have all been essential in providing a bit of light to help see the way. thank you                       May 3, 2013    #19             makatak  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  2     Joined:  Mar 1, 2013    from U.K.           OD'ing from cocaine is quick and very simple to diagnose. Seen most often as Heart failure with no sign of cholesterol build up, or undiagnosed heart disease. Any one with first person experience of his will not be replying to ths email due to heart failure. Not 'heart attack' as there will be no prior knowledge/symptoms. The heart will just stop.  If this happens you have approx 120seconds to ge to an ECG machine other option is 2-3 hours of compression pumping before getting natural response.  Cocaine is a very dangerous and celebrity endorsed underestimated drug . It makes your heart 'want to' stop. Nothing else has this direct malfunction effect.  Queens MSc biology and coke lover - be carful x                       May 3, 2013    #20             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.              makatak said: ↑   OD'ing from cocaine is quick and very simple to diagnose. Seen most often as Heart failure with no sign of cholesterol build up, or undiagnosed heart disease. Any one with first person experience of his will not be replying to ths email due to heart failure. Not 'heart attack' as there will be no prior knowledge/symptoms. The heart will just stop.  no, I don't expect dead people to post responses to this thread. i was including a broader more general use of the term overdosing. you are speaking of overdoing that leads to complete heart failure. that would certainly constitute an OD but i think people who become unconscious for any amount of time, or people who become completely disoriented physically and/or mentally, or someone who suffers from any kind of heart issue or any other organ issue for that matter that required immediate medical attention during a session would count as Overdoses in my book. Just basically going so far over the line as to experience some immediate trauma from said use. Click to expand...                            (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Page 1 of 2   1  2  Next >     Tags:   cocaine  cocaine overdose  injecting cocaine  iv cocaine  overdose        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - crack overdose amount  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by lorentz5 , Feb 14, 2011 .            0 / 5 ,              Feb 14, 2011    #1             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.           Having extreme difficulty finding an actual number. Can't find anything here, on erowid, google, etc. The best guess found was "0.1-0.2g is a typical dose." No need for dissuasion either; AFOAF was a crack virgin and smoked 0.4g over an hour his first time, but dared not go higher. It is understandable that it is difficult to know an exact number, due to variables (purity/administration/etc), but in the spirit of harm reduction , what amount constitutes an unsafe dosage?                       Feb 14, 2011    #2             Pain Hurts  Mercury Member      Reputation Points:   55      Messages:  571     Joined:  Feb 11, 2011    from Canada           it really depends on the person and can say from personal exper. coke is a funny drug .  ....  stay away., but I did hear about a guy who smoked $1,000 worth, weighed out.                       Feb 14, 2011    #3             Moving Pictures  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   4,244      Messages:  2,879     Joined:  Feb 4, 2010    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           There's no set dose. I mean, if someone could smoke 1 or 2 grams in one hit, it would probably kill them. But that's not possible to do. Crack is more of a cumlative overdose, if that makes sense. You have to keep smoking more and more. A good rule of thumb though is to put the pipe down when you start having uncomfortable heart palpitations, shaking, blurred vision, extreme anxiety /paranoia, profuse sweating, etc. It surprising hard to do though! Even with those horrible effects! And even when you do put away the pipe and try to ride out those horrible effects swearing you'll never smoke again, once they begin go away, it's even more surprising how quick you are to pick up the pipe again.  My friend remembers many days/nights spent in his room, laying in bed, praying for those effects to go away and when they finally did, he'd start smoking again and have the same damn effects! Then he'd go back to curling in a ball, pray for them to go away, swearing he'd never smoke again only to pick it up again as soon as the effects lightened up. Continue the cycle until he ran out of crack . And to think of the money he spent to put himself through all that! Lord! That shit gets a hold on you, man. Crack is baaaad news. Use at your own risk...      Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #4             Rikki-tikki-tavi      Reputation Points:   292      Messages:  185     Joined:  Jan 26, 2011    from U.K.           In one study i read, a crack user study in sao paulo, only 8.7% of patients in a long term suffered any cocaine overdose. It also found that overdose was more likely in users with preexisting cardiovascular problems. #1  I also found that it has much to do with whether the person has been drinking alcohol , as in the presence of alcohol , the cocaine can become cocaethylene .  The LD50 in mice was 93 mg/kg for cocaine versus 60 mg/kg for cocaethylene , the study also notes that as the process of turning cocaine to cocaethylene takes some time, this might explain why cocaine overdoses happen 6-12 hours after ingestion. #2  I know this doesn't give exact quotes to the figures and im sorry, i cant find them either. It doesn't seem to be a very common happenstance to smoke too much, perhaps due to the quick onset of a smoked dose, allowing the user to tell they have had something strong, and also down to the smaller half life of the smoked dose meaning that less cocaethylene or cocaine can be built up.  It's worth noting if you are estimating overdoses on crack from the figures on cocaine , that crack is also "stronger" due to the molecule being less heavy, crack will deliver the same punch for 89% of the weight vs cocaine hydrochloride.  Hope this helps!  #1 http://www.scielo.br/scielo.php?pid=S1516-44462006000300010&script=sci_arttext #2 http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/813959-overview       Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #5             Moving Pictures  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   4,244      Messages:  2,879     Joined:  Feb 4, 2010    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           ^That interesting information. But yeah, a crack overdose doesn't really happen in one hit cus you can only smoke so much in a hit and the high doesn't last long. An overdose doesn't usually happen until you've been smoking for hours/days and have built up a huge amount in your system. Compared with iv cocaine / crack where you can introduce a huge amount into your body in one go, crack is far harder to overdose on. But the nature of crack is that you want to keep on smoking it no matter what so it's hard to stop once you start feeling those negative sideeffects.  Personally, my friend finds the cravings from crack to be far stronger that snorting or shooting cocaine . Not saying those are easy to put down but crack comes and goes so quick, my friend has never felt such a strong desire to redose as he does with crack . I mean, with sniffin and shooting, the high tapers down and then you start fiending but crack , you're really high and as soon as it starts to come down, you HAVE to have more. Like to take a hit of crack and want another one 30 seconds later. The stuff is crazy. I know I'm going off topic here but I don't think the compulsiveness of crack can be overstated. You've never fiended for a drug until you've fiended for crack . Shorter crash than iv or snorting but far worse cravings.                       Feb 14, 2011    #6             Spucky  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,953      Messages:  2,332     Joined:  Feb 9, 2009    from japan            AW: crack overdose amount  By Experience i can tell that the lethal Dosage of Crack-Cocaine is bound to the Health-Profile of the Person!  The Hardcore smoking Crack Consumer die mostly by Exhaustion !  But, there is also something like a Shock, where the Brain just take off the Lung because of a Shock. (Brain to Lung, Brain to Lung, you are off you Fool- i told you that) This can be happen when the Consumer smoke the big Hookah!  Edit: Translation: Everything is depending on the amount of the intake in a short time, you can smoke a few Hundred gramms or even more when there is Time, but smoking more than 0,4g in one Blow is more than dangerous!      Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #7             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.              Like to take a hit of crack and want another one 30 seconds later. The stuff is crazy Click to expand...   Most agreed, AFOAF spent about an hour of his comedown frantically searching the webs for an answer to the OD question to see if he could continue smoking and ease the comedown . Upon finding nothing, he restrained himself.  Thank you everyone for the prompt and informative replies. AFOAF smoked 0.3g in about 15min, 0.4 in an hour, and by then he was starting to get very bad side effects , tweaks, irritability, strange heart rhythm, mild difficulty breathing. He posted he to get an idea of where to set an hourly cap. 0.4g/hr if it's one every couple of weeks sound very dangerous?  He was a crack virgin, and it struck him profoundly how dangerous this practice can be. He will probably do it again sometime in the future, but he values living over maximizing his high, so limiting amount available from the start seems prudent, hence the question.      ​                        Feb 15, 2011    #8             Piglet  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   675      Messages:  1,255     Joined:  May 28, 2005    47
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.K.            Cocaine can cause sudden death from heart-failure at a dose taken many times before without incident. Heroin has rightly got the title for the highest death toll amongst it's abusers, but cocaine is number two on the list.  It affects potassium channels in the heart causing arhythmia - you don't feel chest pain, you just keel over & die. I've seen it happen. I'm thinking that while dimethocaine makes a poor substitute, it is likely a lead compound for a safe cocaine replacement (the -NH2 means it to screws with the heart & it's not required for DRI).                       Apr 4, 2011    #9             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.           Thanks Piglet,  OP has given up crack since then.  He'd like to say, he thoroughly enjoys reading your posts here, especially the LSD synth material. Very inspiring as OP is studying chem with just a slight interest in drug dev. Just slight  Can you explain how the amine messes with the heart? OP is now prescribed an amine for ADHD; it works pretty well and he hasn't experienced any heart problems.      Last edited by a moderator: Apr 9, 2011                    Mar 15, 2017    #10             Robotweak  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  2     Joined:  Jan 9, 2017    from Canada           Based on my personal experiences researching crack rocks, I've come to find that typically its actualy much harder than one would think it is to fatally OD from coke . I have heard however from multiple people/sources over the years that its roughly 4-5 grams of PURE cocaine within a relatively short time period, making it hard to judge considering the vast purity differences in white powder as well as the ROA at the time.  The vast majority of cases that did end in death were from mules who tried to smuggle large amounts inside their bodies and a packet opens up, or from those champs banging it straight in the veins (like most all drug ODs in general)  I feel like research has already OD'D several times in the past due to crack rocks as well as one time just snorting powder, mind you no hospital was visited and no death or painful lasting side effects today.  Like the time 7 grams was smoked by one person over a period of 6-8 hours...definitely od'd, wasnt fun.  Anyways heres a detailed list of the 5 top signs to watch for in a bad cocaine overdose by a user, for users...  Basically you'll know when it happens... 1). suddenly you hit stimulant  psychosis reaal hard and unpredictably, usualy one can handle themselves in this state if they are a senior tweaker but not this time, you beleive everything u see hear and think.  2). The sweats is also a key warning, not like normal stim sweats but sudden drenching of the whole body and face and you may feel compelled to strip nude or go outside.  3) is the nausea, and i mean nothing held back, you will painfully dry heave up stomach acid and will have a hard time stopping.  4). is the classic shakes, not the typical speed twitches but a very noticeable and difficult to deal with heavy shaking, you wont be able to pack a bowl or hit a vein for the life of you, but you will probably still try.  5) warning sign isnt always present but is definitely the most worrisome of all, passing out and loosing consciousness...this is the worst of all signs and shouldnt be taken lightly, ive seen a good number of times after pushing the rigs plunger in and a few seconds later they nod forwards and like a powerfull opiate dose go unconscious after a few unprecedented and violent shakes or mini seizures...  Now if your like my friend then you may continue shooting up more once you regain consciousness and come to, and you may still be alive, but its playing Russian roulette as there are many factors involved, mainly its the heart.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content       Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - information on cocaine overdoses  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by billy1nk , May 28, 2009 .            2 / 5 ,        information on cocaine overdoses   2  5   1 votes  1 vote          May 28, 2009    #1             billy1nk  Newbie      Reputation Points:   60      Messages:  36     Joined:  May 22, 2009    from U.S.A.           I am about to inject a large amount of cocaine and would like to make sure he is not OD'ing. The amount is approximately 150 mg of cocaine . He just shot up about 75 mg and got a throat rush similar to the same one he got when he OD'd on meth where it kind of feels like you're being strangled for a couple seconds. The 75 mg shot gave swim a little nausea but felt good and gave him ear ringing but no flash. Swim 's friend says the 150 mg shot should produce great ear ringing and a bright flash. That is what I am aiming for. I do not mind OD'ing he just doesn't want to end up in the hospital. He is comfortable with puking and can control himself to not have a heart attack or stroke. I am a common heroin user and has strong opiate tolerance. He did a lot of heroin last night and shot up a couple hours ago. He is not sure if this is speed balling but he feels he has come down from the heroin so he thinks he should be safe. I don't really have uppers tolerance as he does not regurarly do cocaine or meth . I am 6'3" and 170 pounds in pretty good health and shape. What are swim 's chances of OD'ing? I have only OD'd once on a 300 mg shot of meth . He is not sure how pure the meth was and how much of the 300 mg was actual meth but it caused him to OD. He just had palpatations, puked like 10 times, felt like shit for a few days, but generally was ok and didn't realize he OD'd until the next day. Swim just doesn't want to go to the hospital tonight. If I do OD aside from remaining calm and keeping his heart beat level, what should I do if this happens? What are the symptoms of a cocaine over dose and at what point is it necessary that I go to the hospital. Also swim plans on using his heroin to come down off the cocaine later, how many hours should I wait after last cocaine injection before it's safe to use heroin without risking his heart stopping?                       May 28, 2009    #2             100mg Methylphenidate  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   117      Messages:  403     Joined:  Sep 2, 2008    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  That's ignorant. Very very ignorant. That's a huge leap in dosage and there's more to avoiding a heart attack or stroke than just calming yourself down. When swim overdosed on methylphenidate , he lost control. He couldn't control his heart any further. You can't control vasoconstriction or seizures on his own either. That's just dumb. I'm not aware of the bioavailability of insufflated cocaine , but You may wish to look into that.                       May 28, 2009    #3             billy1nk  Newbie      Reputation Points:   60      Messages:  36     Joined:  May 22, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I didn't say you can calm down and completely avoid a heart attack, stroke, or seisure. Swim said that it simply helps and when he OD'd on meth that's what he did. If you are OD'ing on the drug then having a panic attack can cause the worse OD symptoms leading to death while if you calm down you can avoid the panic attack and not die. Swim mostly just asked a lot of questions in his post and doesn't see how he was percieved as ignorant. Asking questions is not ignorant. Sitting here rattling off false facts as if I know what I'm talking about is. Therefor, I believe you are ignorant about ignorance. GOT'EM  Anyway, I injected the 150 mg of cocaine and was fine for the most part. He got the weird throat strangulation feeling followed by intense ear ringing for a minute followed by extreme nausea and puking. Swim hung out in his room for about thirty minutes to an hour listening to music and playing online games then injected the rest of the cocaine which was approximately 200+ mg. This brought on even more intense ear ringing and vomiting by still failed to get the flash effect.  I am going to wait until his heart beat slows down and then inject heroin until he can fall asleep. I am buying an 8 ball of heroin cut with morphine tomorrow afternoon, who's jealous?  And next time swim come's on a forum asking for advice to not OD, simply give him the advice rather then sit there and call him ignorant. It's a waste of time I'm simply trying to be safe about my drug use which is what this site is for. There is no need to be an asshole.                       May 28, 2009    #4             100mg Methylphenidate  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   117      Messages:  403     Joined:  Sep 2, 2008    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  "I do not mind OD'ing he just doesn't want to end up in the hospital. He is comfortable with puking and can control himself to not have a heart attack or stroke."  I'm not trying to start an argument with you. It's just that original statement is pretty 'not smart'. Nothing you do at a certain dose is going to control a seizure. And even if your heart is going 180bpm and you're controlling your breathing and trying to relax, your blood vessels are still contricted and your blood pressure is probably way too high to consider remotely safe. Overdosing to any degree is dangerous, and if You is willing to push his limit on dosages, it would be wise to lay off for a while and let his tolerance drop.  With stimulants especially, ones mental tolerance grows much faster than the physical one. It is very possible to overdose and not get as high as desired.  I'm sorry you took my post so personally. And I'm glad You made it out okay. I don't wish an overdose upon anyone. Otherwise, I wouldn't have even bothered posting here.                       May 28, 2009    #5             Benga  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   4,178      Messages:  4,772     Joined:  Aug 15, 2005    from japan            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  second that. stimulant overdoses are often quite drastic, and it's easily possible to reach a state where little can be done. because swiyou had a "lucky" overdose on meth is no reason to state that swiyou doesn't mind overdosing on cocaine , and just doesn't want to have a stroke or heart attack. it's a little more complex than that as i'm sure you know, so please rethink this whole approach and lower those doses.    I.V. Cocaine Overdose   what happened, did swim almost die? collection of cocaine O.D. experiences &questions    b                       May 28, 2009    #6             Fight Club  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   481      Messages:  174     Joined:  Sep 27, 2007    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  OP - glad to hear that you are OK. Your approach was a bit reckless, but your questions are good. Without knowing the purity of your coke , and a bunch of other factors, no one can say what amount of IV cocaine would produce a life-threatening OD.  NIK has injected as much as much as .4 g of relatively pure (washed) coke and fished around a bit without any other ill effects. He once injected .5 g and had a grand mal seizure which ended in cardiac arrest and near death. He was kept alive by CPR until EMTs arrived. If he had been alone (which he usually was) when he slammed that dose, he would not be alive today.  NIKs not sure what "flash" you crave, but proceed carefully until you get there.  A few suggestions that will help:  1. Premix all your solution at once. 3.5 g / 10 ml of water or saline is a good place to start.  2. Prefill your syringes. You won't blunt the tips trying to fill them when you get the shakes, and you won't be as tempted to load a "really fat shot" when you are gakked out.  3. Space out your shots. Every 30 minutes or so will give the coke in your system time to burn off, and you will get a better rush than if you do them one after another.  4. Remove tie after you register. Shoot half, wait 10 seconds, shoot the rest. If you get a way strong batch, the 10 second pause may save your life.  All the best. Be carefull; have fun.  FC                       May 30, 2009    #7             dkmonk  Mercury Member      Reputation Points:   53      Messages:  50     Joined:  Dec 28, 2008    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I would start out at .1 grams and go from there, swims g/f had a grand mal seizure from doin .3 grams iv'ed and when I did .5 he had to control his breathing and move around a little bit because I was scared if he diddnt that he wasnt going to be able to control himself  edit what is this flash you guys are talking about, I has never experience this and has done a lot of quality coke , done so much swim heard converstions going on in my head and it sounded like there was and ocean in there too or a metellic fly going around but never a flash, dont know what you mean by that                       May 30, 2009    #8             BoxStar  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   814      Messages:  198     Joined:  Sep 9, 2007    from earth            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  No one can predict on what amount a particular person will overdose, however cocaine has a narrow therapeutic index due its local anesthetic effects on the heart and CNS which means that beyond a certain dose, approximately 250mg IV, the systemic local anesthetic effect becomes very dangerous and the danger increases dramatically above 400mg, this effect plus the hyperadrenergic state induced by cocaine is what causes life-threatening seizures, deadly cardiac arrhythmias and respiratory collapse; anyone can die of a heart attack or stroke with much lower doses ( slamming  coke can particularly cause a hemorrhagic stroke) there is no such thing as safe dose of cocaine , especially injected.  75mg of injected cocaine is a good dose for a non-tolerant user; 150mg is a high dose and is strongly advised not to go above that unless tolerance is present and the effects felt are reduced considerably.   Speedballing usually means to inject cocaine and heroin at the same time dissolved together in one syringe.  If You slams enough coke to require a hospital there is a pretty large chance that You will be unable to do anything about it, slamming  cocaine can cause complete loss of consciousness in less than 30 seconds and death in 5 minutes, the symptoms of an stimulant overdose are pretty much universal if You has gone too far on meth before he will probably recognize the symptoms, for cocaine is especially important to carefully measure the heartbeat; a very disorganized beat can be the only warning of a possible deadly cardiac arrhythmia like polymorphic ventricular tachycardia .  I had that one a few times caused by overdoses ranging from 375mg to over 600mg, once he ended up being defibrillated wide awake because of his tolerance to benzos and his hyper stimulated state made the sedative given useless and I was about go into fibrillation (heart rate was rapidly increasing), it was an experience SWIM cant forget; the worse overdose he ever had (around 650mg injected due a mix of unusually pure substance and being too fucked up to properly measure) literally killed him, he had a massive seizure within 15-20 seconds after injection lasting around 2-3 minutes and although it stopped and he was still breathing he did not regain consciousness; lucky for him paramedics were less than 5 minutes away, he went into ventricular fibrillation (cardiac arrest) in the ambulance (about 7-9 minutes after injection) and was “dead” for two minutes, lucky for him his heart restarted with a normal rhythm after the third shock; he left the hospital with no lasting “serious” damage 8 hours later, walking on his own and signing his release form to the astonishment of medical personal.  In SWIM opinion, You drug use is reckless and may prove suicidal, You must not care about his life whatsoever; You is not worried about overdosing but doesn’t want to end in a hospital? No problem; You will most likely end up in the morgue.  There is no point on doing drugs to end up overdosing, puking all over the place and potentially killing oneself, this is not preaching from the safe zone; I have been there doing that for years and has meet people that had the same attitude as you, the ones still alive now take life much more seriously after having seen its fragility but many are no longer among the living, having pointlessly faded away in a rush of terror; I was there to see a girl overdose, by time SWIM noticed that something was wrong with her about two minutes after injection she could not speak and was partially paralyzed, SWIM called 911 right away but she died of a massive brain hemorrhage on the hospital; I will always remembers her eyes, she was in the most overwhelming terror I have ever seen in someone, not a nice way to go.  You might think I am an asshole but honestly he doesn’t care as he writes this for all the people who might be reading and could be considering following such a path; someone needs to speak the truth about what is like to slam coke , the risks and to advice that overdosing is not fun, not the way to do drugs and really unreasonable.      Last edited: May 30, 2009                    Jun 6, 2009    #9             ctsracer06  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  4     Joined:  Jun 5, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I had a overdose onetime on some pretty good Cola. Probably 60 to 75% pure, big chunck right of the brick. I bought a quarter ounce and could not stop myself, probably snorted 4 grams within 24hours with about 3, 3hour breaks, at the end of the night of all this I took two small key bumps and smoked two hits of pot, then it started. I felt tingling in his arm and heart was racing, I took cold bath to cool down his body temp and drank lots of water then but never drank much water before said events. This didnt work as my arm started to go numb, I called 911 and they sent the ambulance, when the got their my whole arm was numb to the point where if I would scratch it HARD i wouldnt feel it. When the paramedics got to my room to help me the left side of my face was starting to go numb along with my left arm. Luckily they i think pumped my stomach, im not sure. But swim survived, after he got home from the hospital he did a LONG FAT LINE OF COLA and never did it again after that.                       Jun 6, 2009    #10             bugatti99  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   212      Messages:  25     Joined:  May 8, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I would have (since You has already done it) recommened not to try this. It was double the dose of the first. Maybe tried 100mg then maybe 125mg THEN maybe 150mg? That would much more safe and give You a better idea on how much You can handle before its too much too late. I don't think he would/could have talked You out of it but just trying to make sure you have thought about possible consequences before plunging in. If you were to have a real OD there would be little You could do. Heart attack, stroke, convulsions, skipping heart beats. If its a serious OD, medical attention might not even make it in time. Trying to calm You down and all that will help but it doesn't mean it will work. It is hard to say how much it would take to have a OD, since quality of the cocaine and You tolerance and many factors come into play but You will know if You od'ing. Have someone there that is able to dial for medical attention is a must, dont try this alone. I wouldn't count the meth OD as something to compare by, this could be much worse or much better. Just be safe of course if You must try this again.  I would consider himself lucky.                       Jun 7, 2009    #11             xxdan123xx  Newbie      Reputation Points:   34      Messages:  171     Joined:  Feb 27, 2009    31
				
				y/o          IF You were to od on coke You wouldn't even realize it before You were in the ambulance.  (provided someone is there to call).. It hits like a truck and You will black out and start convulsing.  I have seem 2 good friends have this happen...ONly one came back.  Seriously it's a terrible way to go and swim watched his friend puking and convulsing so violently...It was terrible probably the most traumatic experience of my life..                       Oct 31, 2012    #12             OutsiderMo  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  1     Joined:  Oct 29, 2012    from U.S.A.           I did the same thing. THe first shot I had, I used a small amount and a small needle and it took forever to get it, I was not satisfied with the buzz. So I took the rest that I had ( I had a 20, the first shot was prolly a five dollar hit) and swim immediately got a crazy rush and her ears started ringing. Swim 's never had that big of a high on crack before, even on all night binges. I am trying to breathe slow and take it easy. At first I was panicking, and quickly went here to find a similar question. swim think's it has been about 10 minutes since swim the shot, and swims heart is still beating fast, but has slowed down a lot. Talk about learning a lesson. Swim just wanted to make sure they got a buzz, and not waste it all by taking small doses and not being satisfied. It never occured to swim that one could overdose on hard, but the feeling I had afterwords totally made her realize that death could be around the corner. I am a heroin user and only occasional uses crack , most of the time its because someone is sharing with her. I usually smokes it, but 1 out of every ten time shoots it, to get that fast longer rush. I has def. learned her lesson, and will measure things wisely, and test the strength before taking a large hit.I am def waiting a half hour to an hour before doing the rinse of her combined shots, and shes not even sure she should do the whole rinse at once, for fear of another close call. Swim 's question is, considering the strength of the crack , and the almost overdose experience, should I only do half of her rise at once?  OutsiderMo added 1 Minutes and 18 Seconds later...   Swim hopes someones can reply asap. Swim will start a new post just in case.  OutsiderMo added 16 Minutes and 44 Seconds later...  Sorry, my pet llama is a newbie, that fuzzball wont make many mistakes that she did in her comment. My pet llama read the rules , and did a fuzzball face-palm. My pet llama was grateful for the information that this thread provided. My pet llama apologizes.      Last edited: Oct 31, 2012                    Oct 31, 2012    #13             Wanderer  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   3,445      Messages:  1,425     Joined:  Oct 30, 2009    from earth           No one here will tell you to use or not to use illegal drugs, or make recommendations on dosages for how much one should or should not take with drugs like cocaine .  It is unpredictable and is one where less is more is the rule.  For more information read the sticky:   Whats the Safe Amount of Cocaine to do in a Day?  Be well...                       Mar 31, 2013    #14             Bentheredonethat  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  1     Joined:  Mar 29, 2013    26
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           A friend of mine has been on a binge I.v'ing coke and has done about a quarter/7gs a day and blown about xxx$ this week alone he's had several train rides and wobbly legs and blurred vision and what not. He's 160lbs and 5"10 and very athletic tho, recovering heroin addict. He now aims for this feeling every time putting about a xx$ which here is about .4/.5 of a G in one cap with 100cc of water and doing it in two shots maybe one, might I add it's about 85-90% pure and cut with b12 so very strong he's went unconscious several times, thrown up, fell down from wobbles and everything else. I'm scared at this rate he's going to die any day now. He can't stop in too deep.  Any suggestions for me to tell my friend?      Last edited by a moderator: Mar 31, 2013                    Apr 1, 2013    #15             Cirox  Newbie      Reputation Points:   45      Messages:  80     Joined:  Apr 11, 2011    32
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from brazil           Had I an overdose ??  When I was alone in my home, at dawn, locked in the bathroon, I was shooting coke in my veins. In 8 or 9 shot, I feel my pressure down, my mouth dried, I feel cold, and my vision darkened. I sat on the floor, and I threw some water on my face. About 5 or 10 minutes, I was normal again, (I dont know if I fainted or not). I didnt take shoots that night again, but next 3 days I was shooting again (moderately). This event was an OD ??  Cirox added 1112 Minutes and 56 Seconds later...  up!!!!  Cirox added 0 Minutes and 31 Seconds later...  why cocaine is a so much compusive drug       Last edited: Apr 1, 2013                    Apr 2, 2013    #16             Wanderer  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   3,445      Messages:  1,425     Joined:  Oct 30, 2009    from earth              Cirox said: ↑   Had I an overdose ??  When I was alone in my home, at dawn, locked in the bathroon, I was shooting coke in my veins. In 8 or 9 shot, I feel my pressure down, my mouth dried, I feel cold, and my vision darkened. I sat on the floor, and I threw some water on my face. About 5 or 10 minutes, I was normal again, (I dont know if I fainted or not). I didnt take shoots that night again, but next 3 days I was shooting again (moderately). This event was an OD ?? Click to expand...   Maybe, maybe not, sounds like the edge was pushed a bit.  This should be a warning to slow down a bit.  To push things anymore would potentially be life threatening.  Besides, you ask if you had an overdose over the Intertubez.  This is something which cannot be diagnosed by a web forum.  If you are concerned or are in trouble, seek emergency attention immediately. The life you save may be your own.     Cirox said: ↑   why cocaine is a so much compusive drug Click to expand...   It's a complicated thing, but cocaine just happens to hit all the right receptors and transporters in the right way to make it euphoric and compulsive at the same time.  If it becomes a problem, then one should seriously consider stepping back away from it for a while or possibly permanently before one does serious damage.  Be well...                       Apr 2, 2013    #17             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           My experience with cocaine from the very beginning, was a love hate relationship. The first 15-20 uses were always small because of the price. From my first line in like '98 till i quit in '08, the one thing that separates coke from all the other drugs i have done in my life. Its power over the user. Once that first line snorted, the brain already wants more, even before the positive effects have worn off.  I have always thought,  something as expensive and addictive, as cocaine , should last longer. Imagine cocaine with the positive effects lasting as long as meth . What a drug that would be. The only true way to enjoy all your cocaine , is to have more than you want. Your brain stops craving it, after a certain amount has been done.                       Mar 20, 2017    #18             Some stupid guy  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  20     Joined:  Feb 3, 2014    from earth           My dog had lots of ugly experiences with large amounts of coke done very fast, always snorting .   But once something happened with my dog, maybe a couple of years ago, and it scared the shit out of him.  My pittbull had done a good amount for some hours, and after it was over, the dog went on Benzo for coming down. There was a Absolute vodca bottle used for pure drinking water, and it was on the floor of the dog's bedroom.  Maybe an hour after the last line, the dog was feeling pretty much ok, standing up (it's a 2-legs-walking dog), and then he went down, lowering his head, in order to grab the bottle on the floor and drink some water.  Then, blank . My dog just passed out, doesn't remember anything after making that movement.  The dog woke up and he was laying down with his face on the floor, the bottle glass broken all over (he fell over the bottle, broke it with his face, and miraculously didn't got hurt). The dog's arterial pressure was very low, he was shaking and sweating cold, and all he could do was stand up and throw himself onto his bed, just breathing and waiting.  Maybe it took 5 or 10 minutes for the dog to fully recover, just laying down and breathing, thinking "it's all going to be ok, the worse has passed, just chill, it's gonna be ok".  Remarkable my dog could find glass pieces of the broken bottle over his bed weeks and weeks after the incident, and did not have a single scratch.  My dog is pretty much sure he passed out because he put his head down, but the scary thing is that the dog has passed out for various reasons before, and it never happened so fast ; as fast as the dog didn't fell dizzy even one second before blank.  The dog did worse many times after, but never experienced anything close to that single incident.  OD or not, makes the dog think about how dangerous coke can be.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Tags:   cocaine  coke  injecting  intravenous injection        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Health - Cocaine deaths  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by Panth_Cocaine , Oct 18, 2004 .            0 / 5 ,              Oct 18, 2004    #1             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          1) What excatly does cocaine kill [first], when you die? Your heart or your brain (and, if it depends, what's usually killed first?).   2) Is O.D.ing the only way to die of cocaine ? (or are there slower, more 'certain' ways, that will eventually kill you, even if you don't O.D.?)   3) Is it possibly to be left severely brain-damaged instead of dead by cocaine (both by O.D.ing and whatever other side-effects that may exist)   4) If you O.D. and nobody finds you fora day or more, is there any chance thatyou won't die?                       Oct 18, 2004    #2             thcannibislover  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  37     Joined:  Sep 27, 2004          Shit if you are that worried or dont know that much about coke DONT DO IT, or get some one who does to show you the ropes. personaly if your wanting to get wired, caffien getts me more energetic then coke does. coke just made me numb and give me an attitude that I hated the most, a very egotistic drug if nothing more.                       Oct 19, 2004    #3             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          I'm perfectly well aware of the fatality of cocaine use, I just don't know the details about death. As for number 4) I mean, that there is no chance you're brain-damaged instead of dead - that is, if I ever wanted to commit suicide I don't wanna end up brain-damaged. 4) isn't written in fear, cos' I'm pretty certain it ain't a good idea if you wanna stay alive...   I'm not hoping to stay alive till I'm 85...   As Jim Morrison sang 'No-one here gets out alive'   If you want a long, normal happy peaceful suburban existence, you probably don't do cocaine . I don't care if I die, I just don't wanna be brain-damaged, and that's the purpose of this thread                       Oct 19, 2004    #4             HardCash21  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  38     Joined:  Mar 5, 2004          No brain damage can result from using cocaine with exception of rare cases when over dosed to the max.  I wouldn't worry about that.  The most common death associated with cocaine is cardiac arrest.                       Oct 20, 2004    #5             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          ok                        Mar 25, 2005    #6             tootmyhorn  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  3     Joined:  Jan 24, 2005          Answer to Q2: Per my research, It will weaken you over time and you will need more and more. Not to mention, a person becomes brave and try other things along with coke . Once in a great while is the way to go so your body recovers completely and the high will be awesome too. Please read and do more research and you will feel more comfortable with your descision.                       Mar 26, 2005    #7             Patrick131  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  48     Joined:  Jan 18, 2005          if i'm not mistaken, cocaine is a vaso-constrictor and with repeated use it narrows out the walls of the arteries and makes them hard.each time you gethigh, your heart has to work harder in order to get the blood to all of the necessary places in your body.   stroke is alsocommon with od cases dealing with coke as you've probably discovered from researching. so for question 1, I would say that it depends on whether you've over-exerted your heart and caused it to fail, or you've screwed something up in your brain and caused it to fail. either way, one cannot function for more than five minutes without the other. so i don't think it matters which goes first.                       Mar 26, 2005    #8             hippie_lain  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   273      Messages:  313     Joined:  Oct 10, 2004    from U.S.A.           Yes...any od with coke usually has to do with the heart. Just dont do a gram in a night and you wont even get close to oding. When you do an 8-ball in a night is when you need to take a look at yourself and decide what is more important. As far as long term damages coke is pretty harsh. It basically puts mirco holes in your heart, decreasing the heath of it and increasing the risk of heart related illnesses. Id cheak erowid.com and look up links from that site top find out more. In my opinion Id keep it to a couple lines when at a party...when you get to grams a night weak hearts will take a real beating.                       Mar 26, 2005    #9             fletch  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   39      Messages:  171     Joined:  Dec 9, 2004    from Canada           basically what happens is coke gives your body a false energy, and in doing so causesincreased blood flow, which with contiuned or heavy use causes debris from a bodily chemical (cant think ofthe name)in your artaries and stuff which eventually can cause blocks, and someday a heartattack.                       Apr 13, 2005    #10             raven3davis  R.I.P.  Palladium Member  R.I.P.      Reputation Points:   942      Messages:  1,490     Joined:  Jan 6, 2005          After using cocaine for a long time it can fuck up your heart so bad that you will probably die of a heart attack. Cocaine will kill your heart, not your brain. I guess if you ODd to the point where you stopped breathing for an extended amount of time, the lack of oxygen to your brain could cause brain damage.    4) If you O.D. and nobody finds you fora day or more, is there any chance thatyou won't die?    yes. You could overdose, and be okay. I have had friends who injected .7 grams and overdosed and they are fine now. I don't really think it matters if someone finds them in a day or not because after a day, they will either be dead or not.                       Apr 13, 2005    #11             enquirewithin  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   3,605      Messages:  5,785     Joined:  Dec 11, 2004    from bermuda           Not sure about that. If someone OD's one coke there is a very good chance that they CAN be saved by paramedics. They can start up your heart with an electric shock. You are unlikely to get any significant brain damage.     IVing  cocaine and heroin together can be very dangerous.    Prolonged cocaine use does not appear to cause much permanent physical damgage except to you nose (if you can afford to take that much!)    Edited by: enquirewithin                        Apr 13, 2005    #12             Kittyofftitty  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   2      Messages:  74     Joined:  Nov 10, 2004    30
				
				y/o          1.  Usually the heart is what goes out first although sometimes the clogging of arteries in your brain can lead to stroke which kills some of your brain.  2.  Actually, if you are healthy and somewhat young, ODing on cocaine is pretty hard because young hearts and arteries can take the pressure put upon them.  What is more likely to kill you is continued use into old age or taking a reasonable amount when you are quite old.  This is because extended use can strain your heart so after a while it will not be able to take the speediness and will quit, or if you have never used cocaine before but are quite old you are pretty likely to have a weaker heart or a build up of plaque (or whatever it is called) in your arteries do to old age.  This means that when you use cocaine for perhaps the first time you are much more likely to have a heart attack and/or stroke.  3.  Strokes can lead to brain damage but for the average user a stroke is unlikely.  4.  I think so, strokes often don't kill but don't  trust me on this one, ask a doctor.  ALWAYS make sure you don't have any sort of heart complication before doing coke .  Heart failure is the #1 cause of major cause of coke injuries.                       Apr 13, 2005    #13             DURBANS  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  42     Joined:  Apr 11, 2005          What about if you are fat like me? Oh, and my father suffers from high blood pressure .   Maybe if I start doing some exercise there will be no problems?                       Apr 14, 2005    #14             enquirewithin  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   3,605      Messages:  5,785     Joined:  Dec 11, 2004    from bermuda           If you are so worried about it, follow your instincts and don't take it. Do something more interesting!                       Apr 14, 2005    #15             Kittyofftitty  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   2      Messages:  74     Joined:  Nov 10, 2004    30
				
				y/o          I would think that a good cardiovascular work out to strengthen your heart would help but using coke with high blood pressure seems risky.                       Mar 8, 2006    #16             Alicia  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   786      Messages:  1,588     Joined:  Jan 12, 2005    from earth           The other risk, I suppose that i dont think I have seen mentioned, swim heard this from a gp. but some people are susptical to have cardiac problems with first use and possibly experience od. but this was rare apparently the only thing thou how would u know if you have heart problems if u haven't be diagnosed its the same gamble with drug-induced psychoses no one will about til it happens.. Just a thought.                       Mar 8, 2006    #17             Sickness Life  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  28     Joined:  Mar 7, 2006          Think of small casual coke use as heavy smoking..  If you OD, You either have a stroke or a seizure and are fine the next day, the stroke will infact usually kill you however, Kidney failure can happen do to longterm use, but its comparable to kidney/liver failure from alcoholism.  It can damage your heartt.. Infact it does, I dunno, my friends cousin just died from a heart-failure, we are contributing this to heavy drug use including alcohol an perscription drugs.   Coke can be used safely, but you have to be careful, i guess its like do u really wanna challange the beast an for how long                        Jun 16, 2007    #18              Alfa  Productive Insomniac  Staff Member  Administrator      Reputation Points:   13,728      Messages:  37,988     Joined:  Jan 14, 2003    117
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from The Netherlands            Deaths related to cocaine  There have been growing concerns about the health risks of cocaine use, particularly because of the trend of increasing recreational use observed in some countries, especially in settings (discos, clubs) frequented by youth groups. Despite the difficulties in estimating the number of cocaine-related deaths, this measure may act as a valuable indicator of increased risk or help to identify risky patterns of use. Although acute deaths in which cocaine is present without opiates seem to be infrequent in Europe, it is likely that current statistics are inadequate in recording cocaine-related deaths. The information that is available about cocaine deaths at the European level is limited and is reported in different forms. Cocaine use is frequent among opiate users, and it is common to find cocaine in toxicological analyses of cases of opiate overdoses, in addition to other substances such as alcohol and benzodiazepines .  Several countries reported information about cocaine deaths in 2003 (Reitox national reports): Germany (25 cases involving cocaine alone and 93 involving cocaine in combination with other drugs; in 2002, the corresponding figures were 47 and 84), France (10 deaths due to cocaine alone and one associated with a medicine), Greece (two cases due to cocaine ), Hungary (four deaths due to cocaine overdose), the Netherlands (17 deaths due to cocaine in 2003, with an increasing trend between 1994, two cases, and 2002, 37 cases), Austria ( cocaine was found in 30 % of drug-related deaths, but alone in only three cases and in one case in association with gas), Portugal ( cocaine was found in 37 % of drug-related deaths) and the United Kingdom (‘mentions’ of cocaine in death certificates increased from 85 in 2000, to 115 in 2001 and 171 in 2002, with an eightfold increase over the period 1993–2001). In its 2003 Reitox national report, Spain reported that, in 2001, cocaine was present in 54 % of all drug-related deaths; in 39 cases (8 % of all drug-related deaths) death occurred in the absence of opiates , of which 21 were caused by cocaine only and five were caused by cocaine and alcohol .  Despite the limitations of the available information, cocaine seems to have played a determinant role in between 1 % and 15 % of drug-related deaths in countries that were able to make the differentiation between drug types causing death, with several countries (Germany, Spain, France and Hungary) reporting figures of around 8–12 % of drug-related deaths. Although it is very difficult to extrapolate these results to the whole of Europe, this could mean several hundreds of cocaine-related deaths per year at EU level. Although the numbers are much lower than deaths caused by opiates , cocaine-related death is a serious and possibly increasing problem; in the few countries where trends can be estimated, they tend to show an increase.  In addition, cocaine may be a contributing factor in deaths due to cardiovascular problems (arrhythmias, myocardial infarction and cerebral haemorrhages; see Ghuran and Nolan, 2000 ), particularly in users with predisposing conditions, and many of these deaths may pass unreported.   Source: EMCDDA (EU)      Last edited by a moderator: Sep 9, 2007                    Jun 20, 2007    #19             dbjay417  Newbie      Reputation Points:   39      Messages:  136     Joined:  Jun 9, 2007          The #1 cause of all drug related deaths is supression of accurate information by the government. If parents and teachers could be 100% open about drug use with teens and young adults a lot of deaths could be prevented.  The man put pot, coke , and H all in the same group and said "those are bad, dont do drugs." Problem is, most people try pot and discover that its almost completely harmless. Once that happens, people immediately start to wonder about the other drugs on the list.  If they would just be honest and go in depth, they could prevent a good deal of addiction and in effect drug related crime, overdose and indirectly drug related deaths.                       Jun 20, 2007    #20             tayo  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   420      Messages:  1,009     Joined:  May 14, 2007    from U.S.A.           that's an interesting argument..^^ on a side note  something like ~70% of cocaine deaths are caused by acute respiratory depression . just a little add-on from some link off erowid read a few years ago.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content       Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                  Ads from Google:                            Google ad      End of ad      Google Adsense ad        End of ads.         Independent expert answers on psychiatry and psychology        Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Abstract: Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine.               Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account                    MORE INFO  Addictions  ADHD  Anorexia  Anxiety, panic  Bulimia  Child care  Burnout  Depression  Healthy living  Instability  Life  Mood swings  Obesity  Personality  Phobia  Psychotherapy  Medicines  Relations  Sex  Sleep  Stress  Treatment   All answers  All categories  Tell a friend about Web4Health  This web site in other languages                 Independent medical expert answers on psychiatry and psychology     Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question  Info                                      Top   Discuss this  Get expert advice   Print           Question(s):    Written by: Wendy Moelker , Psychologist in charge, tutor, Emergis center for mental health care, Goes, the Netherlands.   First version: 22 Jul 2008. Latest revision: 22 Jul 2008.       Is it possible to overdose by sniffing cocaine?  Answer:    Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine. When the effects of the cocaine turn out badly, the user feels restless, anxious and suspicious. Sometimes the user feels so suspicious that it can turn into paranoid delusions. For
example, users may be afraid that they are being followed.  However, an overdose can be worse and lead to heart and respiratory problems resulting in death, especially with intravenous use and smoking or basing cocaine. When cocaine is injected, death can follow very fast, even after only a few minutes. Smoking or basing can also have the same effects. Fortunately, a lethal overdose is fairly uncommon.  The causes of a fatal overdose are:    Disturbance of the heart and blood vessel system. An overdose can lead to a strong irregular functioning of the heart,
and eventually failure of the heart. It can cause high blood pressure, and as a result, bleeding in the brain leading to a greater possibility of death by brain hemorrhage.   Repeated convulsions , which can happen in such quick succession that consciousness cannot be restored.   Respiratory problems resulting in respiratory failure.   There are a lot of differences in toxic or deadly doses. Some users stay alive after using a few grams while others who are allergic to cocaine can die of a small dose. The exact amount of cocaine that causes an overdose varies from person to person and depends on a variety of factors including physical condition and possible diseases. Obviously, heart problems or a blood vessel disorder in the brain increase the risk of an overdose. The
combination of cocaine with other narcotics or alcohol can increase the risks as well. Therefore, it is difficult to determine a standard for a too high dosage, also because cocaine is often cut up.  In medical literature, there is a difference between a fatal and a lethal dose. A fatal dose causes death in 100% of the cases. A lethal dose causes death in 50% of the cases.  Some doctors estimate that 1.2 grams of cocaine, when used orally, and 750-800 milligrams, when used intravenously or by inhaling, is fatal.
It is unknown how much cocaine is fatal when sniffed. (Source: Cocaine Vraagbaak, Federatie van Instellingen voor Alcohol en Drugs, 1986). A user sniffs 0.1-0.2 grams of cocaine, i.e., 2-4 lines a night.  The average lethal dose of intravenous use of cocaine is about
500 milligrams. That doesn't mean, however that a smaller dose is
safe. An estimated lethal dose when sniffing cocaine is unknown. These doses are estimates.  It is important to act rationally and fast when someone has an overdose. When the user is anxious or restless, try to calm him down. Bring him to a quiet place and never react to his delusions. It will only make him more restless. Try to talk about something else. If you notice heart or respiratory problems, contact a doctor.        See more information         Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question:   Info                         Google ad      End of ad     More Information  Is it possible to use cocaine in a sensible way?  Damaging physical smoking cocaine effects  The treatment of cocaine addiction  When the use of cocaine gets out of hand  More articles about cocaine, addiction and substance abuse          Sources, references                                                                                  Disclaimer: The documents
contained in this web site are presented for information
purposes only. The material is in no way intended to
replace professional medical care or attention by a
qualified psychiatrist or psychotherapist. It can not and should not be used
as a basis for diagnosis or choice of treatment. If you
find anything wrong, please notify us at .         To top of page                Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account           Web4Health in other languages: Finnish  German  Greek  Italian  Polish  Russian  Swedish  add-cocaine-overdose  Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health   Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health. Web4Health was selected as finalist for the 2008 Stockholm Challenge Award                       Non-Google/Clickviper Ads:  Translate Web4Health  We seek voluntary translators who are interested in translating Web4Health
to new languages. We can provide the servers, and pay you 50 % of the
income from ads on pages, which you have translated. We are especially interested
in translators from German To English, From German, Swedish or English to
French, Spanish, Italian, Greek, Finnish, Polish, Farsi, Russian.  web4health.info/en/tr/   Advertise here  Reach 300 000 visitors reading one million pages for a cost of 600 US $/month.  /en/ad/             Skip Navigation       Share your story  Feedback      Here you can say what you want, without having to say who you are. Whatever experiences you've had with drugs, it can help to get something off your chest. And you might end up helping someone else. Please read FRANK's disclaimer .   Title *     Your Story   *   Your story    Story    Your video    Video     Description     CAPTCHA Please check the box below before submitting.       Your story has been submitted for review. Thank you for sharing.    Please wait while data is saving...       If you don't like what you see on the site or if there's something missing, please tell FRANK how it could be better.  Subject *     Comments *    CAPTCHA Please check the box below before submitting.                    We use cookies on this site, click this message to find out more             FRANK helps you find out everything you might want to know about drugs (and some stuff you don't). For friendly, confidential advice, Talk to FRANK.                      Home  Drugs The facts Drugs A–Z  FRANK News  FAQs  Under the Microscope  Drugs on the Brain – Videos   Experience Cannabis: Mess with Your Mind  Cocaine Basement  Spliff Pinball       Your say Your say Hear from Others  Share Your Story  Site Feedback   Your say      Get help Get help Emergency Help  Are You 'Under the Influence'?  Worried About a Child?  Worried About a Friend?  Find Support Near You  Drug Treatment       Contact Frank       LIVE CHAT (2pm - 6pm)  email  82111  0300 123 6600       Search form   Search this site     Search for  Drugs News Stories           You are here: Drugs Drugs A-Z Cocaine     Cocaine      Skip To Footer Menu         Lines of cocaine  Show full size image      Related terms:
  White,  
          Wash,  
          Toot,  
          Stones,  
          Snow,  
          Rocks,  
          Percy,  
          Pebbles,  
          Freebase,  
          Crack,  
          Coke,  
          Ching,  
          Charlie,  
          Chang,  
          C.        The Drug     The Effects     The Risks     The Law       The Drug    Overview  Appearance  Use    Overview   It can give a powerful high that can leave you feeling really down Powder cocaine (also called coke), freebase and crack are all forms of cocaine. They’re all powerful stimulants, with short-lived effects – which means that they temporarily speed up the way your mind and body work, but the effects are short-lived. Both ‘freebase’ cocaine (powder cocaine that’s been prepared for smoking) and ‘crack’ cocaine (a ‘rock’ like form of cocaine) can be smoked. This means that they reach the brain very quickly, while snorted powder cocaine gets to the brain more slowly. All types of cocaine are addictive, but by reaching the brain very quickly freebase or crack tend to have a much stronger effect and be more addictive than snorted powder cocaine. Injecting any form of cocaine will also reach the brain more quickly but this has serious additional risks, including damaging veins and spreading blood bourne virsues, such as HIV and Hep C. Here are the main effects and risks of taking cocaine: It can make you feel on top of the world, very confident, alert and awake, but some people can get over-confident, arrogant and aggressive and end up taking very careless risks. It raises the body’s temperature, makes the heart beat faster and reduces your appetite. When the effects start to wear off, people experience a long ‘comedown’, when they feel depressed and run down. This crash can happen for days afterwards.    Next     Appearance   What does cocaine look like? ‘Coke’ is a white powder. ‘Crack’ is a form of cocaine made into small lumps or rocks that makes a cracking noise when burnt. ‘Freebase’ cocaine is specially prepared ‘coke’ and is a crystal-like powder; it is less common than 'coke' and 'crack'. On average, a gram of coke powder generally costs £42. A crack rock costs between £10 and £20.  Crack is sometimes sold cheaper by the slice or as a 'clubbing rock' for about £10.    Next     Use   How do people take cocaine? Coke is divided into lines and snorted up the nose. It is not easily smoked, unless specially prepared into ‘freebase’ or 'crack' cocaine. A rock of crack is about the size of a raisin. Like ‘freebase’, it's usually smoked in a pipe, glass tube, plastic bottle or in foil. Both powder and crack forms of cocaine can be prepared to make a solution of cocaine for injecting. Sharing needles and syringes or other injecting equipment, when injecting, runs the risk of the injector catching or spreading HIV and hepatitis C infection. There is also the risk that veins may be damaged and of an abscess or blood clot developing.     The Effects      Taking cocaine makes users feel on top of the world, wide-awake, confident and on top of their game – but some people are over-confident on it and so may take very careless risks. Its effect is much like speed (amphetamines), but is usually stronger and doesn't last as long. It can also have other effects: Raising the body’s temperature Making the heart beat faster Reducing feelings of hunger After a big night on cocaine, it's not unusual for people to feel like they've got the flu. The effects of crack smoking are virtually immediate, peaking for about two minutes and lasting for only about 10 minutes. When snorting coke it takes longer to peak but the effects still don’t last that long, only around 20-30 minutes. When the effects of any cocaine use start to wear off there can be a very strong temptation to take more, particularly with the long ‘come down’, the crash period sometimes lasting for days afterwards.     The Risks    What are the risks?  Impurities  Getting hooked    What are the risks?   What are the risks? There are many serious risks with taking cocaine. Here’s what it could do to you. Cocaine users have died from overdoses. High doses can raise the body's temperature, cause convulsions, a heart attack and heart failure. Risk of overdosing increases if cocaine is mixed with other drugs or alcohol. Over time, snorting cocaine will seriously damage the cartilage in your nose that separates the nostrils; and it is not unknown for heavy users to lose their cartilage and end up with just one really big nostril and a mis-shapen nose. Cocaine is highly risky for anybody with high blood pressure or a heart condition. Even perfectly healthy, young people can have a fit or heart attack after taking too much. Using cocaine a lot makes people feel depressed and run down. It can lead to serious problems with anxiety, paranoia and panic attacks. Cocaine can bring previous mental health problems to the surface. If a relative has had mental health problems, there might be an increased risk for you. Taking cocaine when you're pregnant can damage your baby. It may cause miscarriage, premature labour and low birth weight. Regularly smoking crack can cause breathing problems and pains in the chest. Frequent users find they begin to crave more – so it can become an expensive habit to keep. Injecting drugs can damage veins and cause ulcers and gangrene. Sharing needles or other injecting equipment can spread HIV and hepatitis infections. It's easier to overdose if you’re injecting cocaine.  ‘Speedballing’, injecting a mixture of cocaine and heroin, can have fatal results. Heavy crack users may take heroin to try to dull their cravings, so they may get hooked on heroin as well  A form of heroin, called white heroin, is easily mistaken for cocaine and people have died or been hospitalisation after snorting white heroin, which they thought was cocaine. Heroin is active in smaller doses than cocaine, so if you mistake it for cocaine, you are more likely to overdose, experience respiratory failure (this is what it’s called when your breathing stops) and possibly die. Cocaine and alcohol Using cocaine with alcohol (or other drugs) can substantially increase risk of side-effects. Alcohol and cocaine together can be particularly dangerous, as they mix together in the body to produce a toxic chemical, called cocaethylene.    Next     Impurities   What is cocaine cut with? Recent police seizures of ‘street’ powder cocaine had an average purity of just 32%. A wrap of cocaine powder can be cut with many things, such as sugar or starch, but benzocaine is most common. Benzocaine is a local anaesthetic which can produce a ‘numbing’ effect similar to cocaine, but without the cocaine ‘high’. The purity of ‘crack’ depends on the purity of the cocaine used originally to produce the ‘crack’.  However, recent police seizures had an average purity of 30%.    Next     Getting hooked   Can you get addicted to cocaine? Cocaine is very addictive and it can be difficult to resist the craving for more. This powerful craving can develop because cocaine can change the way your brain works. Although the powerful psychological dependence that can easily develop is more of a problem than the physical withdrawal symptoms, people who stop using can experience low moods and feel very rough, and this can also tempt them to take more cocaine.     The Law      Cocaine and the law ‘Coke’, ‘freebase’ and ‘crack’ are all Class A drugs – that means they’re illegal to have, give away or sell. Possession can get you up to seven years in jail. Supplying someone else, including your friends, can get you life and an unlimited fine. What if you’re caught? If the Police catch you with cocaine, they’ll always take some action. This could include a formal caution, arrest and prosecution. A conviction for a drug-related offence could have a serious impact. It can stop you visiting certain countries – for example the United States – and limit the types of jobs you can apply for.  Did you know? Like drinking and driving, driving when high is illegal - and you can still be unfit to drive the day after using cocaine. You can get a heavy fine, be disqualified from driving or even go to prison. Allowing other people to supply drugs in your house or any other premises is illegal. If the police catch people supplying illegal drugs in a club they can potentially  prosecute the landlord, club owner or any person concerned in the management of the premises.                       Skip Related Stories   top    Stories              3888         I was only 10 when I first took cocaine.   I was 10 years old when I first tried cocaine. Looking back now, I see how stupid and naive I had been, but the truth is, I trusted the people around me. That was the biggest mistake I’ve ever made.   3888 people found this helpful               4693         Coke messed me up   Until recently I’ve started going to more parties with my friends and stealing fags off my parents. Whenever I go to a party I always smoke, drink or do drugs. I just have to. I went to this party a few days ago I smoked 12 cigarettes, 3 spliffs and took cocaine.   4693 people found this helpful               5664         Coke addiction consumed me   My name is Sam. I am 25, and my husband is 26. We both use cocaine on a regular basis. It started out as a line here or there on a night out- nothing too major. Now every weekend we “get on it” and within 8 months we have spent about £15,000 on cocaine. That’s not even an exaggeration. It got to the point where I would take cocaine during the week and whilst at work.   5664 people found this helpful               3414         Before you know it, it's a way of life   Drugs make you feel good for the moment. They make you feel like you can be friends, dance and talk but they always make you feel useless in the end and they cost money, lots of it.   3414 people found this helpful             Share your story     See more stories            top   FAQs            What does cocaine do?  Cocaine powder (coke) is in a form that dissolves easily and so can be snorted through the nose. It is not easy to smoke the powder, unlike crack cocaine.
Coke can make users feel on top of the world, wide-awake, confident and on top of their game, but some people become over-confident on it, taking careless risks and some become paranoid and aggressive. Cocaine can raise the body’s temperature, make the heart beat faster and reduce feelings of hunger. After a big night on cocaine, it's not unusual for people to feel like they have the flu.  4029 people found this helpful           What does cocaine look like?  A white powder.  3078 people found this helpful           What does cocaine taste/smell like?  Cocaine has a bitter ‘chemical’ taste and smell.  3388 people found this helpful           see more faqs            Getting Help       Emergency help  Dealing with Peer Pressure  Worried about a child?  Worried about a friend?  Drug Treatment  Find Support Near You          Cocaine Basement      Cocaine on the brain video      Cocaine under the microscope                   DRUGS Drugs A–Z  FRANK News  FAQs  Under the Microscope  Drugs on the Brain – Videos   DRUGS Cannabis: Mess with Your Mind  Cocaine Basement  Spliff Pinball   YOUR SAY Hear from Others  Share Your Story  Site Feedback   Get help Emergency Help  Are You 'Under the Influence'?  Worried About a Child?  Worried About a Friend?  Find Support Near You  Find Support Near You  Drug Treatment   CONTACT FRANK Contact Details        Site Policy  Accessibility  Disclaimer  Cookie policy  Mobile site       Hi, have you got a few minutes to give us your views about the ‘legal highs’ information on the FRANK site?   Yes, begin survey     No thanks       FRANK is not online right now. Please come back between 2pm - 6pm (UK) on any day of the week. You can still:  EMAIL FRANK  TEXT 82111  CALL 0300 123 6600              FRANK IS NOT ONLINE NOW  FRANK is not online right now. Please come back between 2pm - 6pm (UK) on any day of the week.                                           Topics & Tools    Health Topics   All topics A-Z  Acid Reflux  ADHD  Allergies  Alzheimer's & Dementia  Bipolar Disorder  Cancer  Chronic Pain    CIC  Cold & Flu  COPD  Crohn's Disease  Depression  Fibromyalgia  Health Insurance Exchanges  Heart Disease    High Cholesterol  HIV  Hypertension  IBS  IPF  Menopause  Multiple Sclerosis (MS)  Nutrition    Osteoarthritis  Pregnancy  Psoriasis  Rheumatoid Arthritis  Skin Disorders and Care  STDs  Type 2 Diabetes     Health Tools   Symptom Checker  BodyMaps    Clinical Trials  Pill Identifier    Find an Online Doctor  Health News    Newsletters  Diabetes Mine              X                         Topics & Tools      Health Topics     All topics A-Z  Acid Reflux  ADHD  Allergies  Alzheimer's & Dementia  Bipolar Disorder  Cancer  Chronic Pain      CIC  Cold & Flu  COPD  Crohn's Disease  Depression  Fibromyalgia  Health Insurance Exchanges  Heart Disease      High Cholesterol  HIV  Hypertension  IBS  IPF  Menopause  Multiple Sclerosis (MS)  Nutrition      Osteoarthritis  Pregnancy  Psoriasis  Rheumatoid Arthritis  Skin Disorders and Care  STDs  Type 2 Diabetes      Health Tools     Symptom Checker  BodyMaps      Clinical Trials  Pill Identifier      Find an Online Doctor  Health News      Newsletters  Diabetes Mine           Newsletter                          Looking to lead a stronger, healthier life? Sign up for our Wellness Wire newsletter for all sorts of nutrition, fitness, and wellness wisdom.      Please enter a valid email.          Subscribe     Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.    Now we’re in this together. Thanks for subscribing and having us along on your health and wellness journey.  See all Healthline's newsletters »                 Advertisement                       Healthline  →  Reference Library  →  Drug Overdose                     Drug Overdose    Written by Mary Ellen Ellis Medically Reviewed by       SHARE     Tweet     Email     Print     SHARE                            Email this page         Your Name:     Your Email:     Recipient's Email:      Send    Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy     Thank you.  Your message has been sent.  OK    We're sorry, an error occurred.  We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later.      Close                     Definition  Risk factors  Symptoms  Treatment  Prevention  Statistics  Outlook  Read this Next                       Drug overdose meaning   A drug overdose is taking too much of a substance, whether
it’s prescription, over-the-counter, legal, or illegal. Drug overdoses may be accidental
or intentional. If you’ve taken more than the recommended amount of a drug or
enough to have a harmful effect on your body’s functions, you have overdosed.  An overdose can lead to serious medical complications,
including death. The severity of a drug overdose depends on the drug, the amount
taken, and the physical and medical history of the person who overdosed.   Risk factors   Several factors can increase the risk of a drug overdose. These
include:  Improper storage of
drugs: Improperly stored drugs can be easy targets for small children, who
are curious and tend to put things in their mouth. It’s easy for children to
get into and accidently overdose on drugs that aren’t properly sealed and
stored away from them.  Not knowing or
following dosage instructions: Even adults can overdose on medication if
they don’t follow the instructions. Accidently taking too much or taking your
doses sooner than directed can easily lead to an overdose of a drug that is
otherwise safe for you.  History of misuse or
addiction: Intentionally misusing prescription drugs or using illicit drugs
can put you at risk of a drug overdose, particularly if it happens often or if
you become addicted. This risk increases if you use multiple drugs, mix
different drugs, or use them with alcohol.  History of mental
disorders: Mental disorders can also be risk factors for a drug overdose. Depression
and suicidal thoughts can be overdose triggers. This is especially true if
these symptoms are not being treated.   Symptoms   The symptoms of a drug overdose may vary depending on the
person, drug, and amount taken. However, universal symptoms include:  nausea and vomiting drowsiness loss of consciousness trouble breathing difficulty walking agitation aggression or violence enlarged pupils tremors convulsions hallucinations or delusions  You should seek medical help immediately if you have these
symptoms or witness them in someone else and suspect they may have overdosed. The
most obvious way to tell if these symptoms indicate overdose is if you know you
have taken drugs or have seen someone else take drugs. Getting
medical help quickly can make a big difference in the effectiveness of drug
overdose treatment.   Treatment   Treatment for a drug overdose varies depending on the situation.
Knowing how much of what drug was ingested can be extremely helpful
during treatment. However, this information is not always available. General
treatment strategies that healthcare providers may use include:  clearing the airway or inserting a breathing
tube when there is a problem with breathing giving activated charcoal, which acts in the
digestive tract to absorb the drug inducing vomiting to remove the substance from
the stomach pumping the stomach to remove the substance from
the stomach giving intravenous fluids to help speed up the body’s
removal of the substance  The healthcare provider may be able to use an antidote for
certain drug overdoses. For example, the drug naloxone can help reverse the
effects of a heroin overdose.   Preventing an overdose   Drug overdoses can be prevented in many ways. The best methods
remove opportunities for accidental overdose or triggers for intentional
overdose in the first place.  If you have children in the house, make sure that all medications,
both prescription and over-the-counter, are kept well out of reach.  If you use prescription drugs, be sure to use them only as
directed by your doctor. Do not combine any medications without first asking
your doctor if it’s safe. You should also not mix alcohol with prescription
drugs without checking with your doctor first.  If you misuse drugs, quitting is the best way for you to
prevent a drug overdose. Know that certain ways of taking drugs can be riskier
than others. Inhaling or injecting drugs may cause them to get to your brain
more quickly and also increases your chance of using an amount that can
severely harm you. If you feel like you can’t quit, talk to your doctor. There
are many programs that can help you. For more information, read about overcoming
addiction .  If you have depression or suicidal thoughts, contact your
doctor right away. Your doctor can help you get the psychiatric care you need.     Drug overdose statistics   According to the National
Institute on Drug Abuse , deaths from drug overdose are on the rise. In
2014, there were almost three times as many deaths from prescription drug
overdose than there were in 2001.  The number of deaths from overdose of prescription opioid
pain relievers increased almost three and a half times between 2001 and 2014.
Almost five times as many people died of benzodiazepine overdose during this
period.    Talk to your doctor   Talk to your doctor about all the ways you can help prevent
a potential drug overdose. The outcome for someone who has overdosed on drugs
depends on many things. It is easy to die from an overdose, but getting
emergency medical attention immediately reduces the odds. Many people who
overdose fully recover and have no ill health effects. Others may recover but
have organ damage as a result of the overdose. Rather than rolling the dice
with treatment once an overdose has happened, you may find that overdose
prevention is the safest answer.          Article Resources      Article resources    Drug use first aid. (2016, May 14). Retrieved
     from http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000016.htm  Naloxone injection. (2016, February 15).
     Retrieved from http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/meds/a612022.html  Overdose death
     rates. (2015, December). Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/related-topics/trends-statistics/overdose-death-rates           Was this article helpful? Yes  No          How helpful was it?  How can we improve it?  ✖  Please select one of the following:      This article changed my life!       This article was informative.       This article contains incorrect information.       This article doesn't have the information I'm looking for.       I have a medical question.         Change      3815117            Let us know how we can improve this article.    NOTE: Healthline isn't a healthcare provider. We can't respond to health questions or give you medical advice.   Your email    ✖  Please enter your email    Your name  ✖  Please enter your name    0    Sign me up for Healthline's Newsletter    Done     We won't share your email address. Privacy policy . Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.     We’re unable to offer personal health advice, but we’ve partnered with trusted telehealth provider Amwell, who can connect you with a doctor. Try Amwell telehealth for $1 by using the code HEALTHLINE.         Use code HEALTHLINE     Start my consult for $1   If you're facing a medical emergency, call your local emergency services immediately, or visit the nearest emergency room or urgent care center.    We're sorry, an error occurred.  We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later.      We appreciate your helpful feedback!  Let's be friends — join our Facebook community.        Thank you for your helpful suggestion.  We'll share your response with our medical review team, who will update any incorrect information in the article.     Thank you for sharing your feedback.  We're sorry you're unsatisfied with what you've read. Your suggestions will help us improve this article.             Share     Tweet     Email     Print     Share                                Read this Next                Read More »                   Read More »                   Read More »             Advertisement          Advertisement        Advertisement        Advertisement        Advertisement           Advertisement        Advertisement                Close        Advertisement                      As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with 65 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being.  You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family.       Sign up for our newsletter  Thank you!   A confirmation email has been sent, and you will receive our next newsletter soon!  See all Healthline's newsletters »  We'll help you live each day to the healthiest.   X          Subscribe     Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.        Find us on:  Facebook  Twitter  Google Plus  Pinterest         About Us  Health Topics  Health News  FDA     Contact Us  Advertise With Us  Advertising Policy  Newsletters     Careers  Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Find an Online Doctor               This website is certified by Health On The Net.  Click here to verify                  Copyright © 2005 - 2017 Healthline Media. All rights reserved. Our content does not constitute a medical consultation. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis. Privacy Policy                                                                 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511  Menu  Menu Addiction Guides Addiction Facts What is Addiction? Recognizing Addiction Drug Abuse Statistics Substance Abuse Triggers Polydrug Use: Get the Facts Addiction Stories Meth Addiction Stories Heroin Addiction Stories Gambling Addiction Stories Marijuana Addiction Stories Cocaine Addiction Stories People at Risk College Students and Drug Abuse Dual Diagnosis Teenagers and Students Veterans and Addictions PTSD and Addiction Self-Assessment Close Substances Resources Understanding Drugs Street Names of Addictive Substances Other Substances Alcohol Nicotine Inhalants Peyote Illicit Drugs Crystal Meth Cocaine and Crack Ecstasy Hallucinogens Heroin LSD Marijuana Spice GHB Painkillers Codeine Fioricet Hydrocodone Methadone Morphine Norco Oxycodone Tramadol Vicodin Sedatives-Hypnotics Ambien Ativan Halcion Klonopin Librium Lunesta Sonata Valium Xanax Close Treatment Guides Treatment Stages 1 ► Intervention 2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy 3 ► Lifelong Commitment Addiction Treatment Process: Overview Relapse Prevention Plan Resources Support Groups: An Overview When a Loved One Has an Addiction Drug Addiction Medications Teenage Drug Abuse – A Guide for Parents & Educators Addiction Treatment Facility Locator Close Rehab Guides F.A.Q. Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own? How Long Does Rehab Take? Medicaid and Medicare Addiction Recovery Costs Substances Alcohol Rehab Heroin Rehabs Cocaine Rehab Crystal Meth Rehab GHB Rehab Ecstasy Rehab LSD Rehab Facilities Rehab Reviews Best Drug Rehabs Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q. Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q. Drug Rehabs Near You Outpatient Rehabs Near You Types Court Ordered Rehabs Free and State Funded Rehabs Rehabs for Veterans Dual Diagnosis Rehabs Close About Us Our Community Scholarship About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Addiction Treatment Events Close You are here: Home Addictive Substances and Drugs Cocaine and Crack Addiction and Treatment 8 Ball Of Coke – What is the Real Cost of Getting High? Free 24/7 rehab helpline (888) 459-5511 8 Ball Of Coke – What is the Real Cost of Getting High? How Much Is An 8 Ball Of Coke? An 8 ball of coke is equal to 3.5 grams of cocaine. In fact, 3.5 grams is one-eighth of an ounce (28.34 grams). For this reason, they call this amount an 8 ball of coke. Besides, the drug dealers and buyers may also use this term to refer to the same amount of meth. A Quick Overview Of Coke What Is Coke? Coke is the most popular nickname of the stimulant drug Cocaine. Interestingly, it is both an illegal drug as well as a legal medication. The addicts use it by snorting, smoking or injecting. It causes high by increasing the level of a brain chemical. They call it dopamine. The source of coke is coca leaf. The effects of coke depend on the duration of abuse. Also, how they use it also determines the effects. In general, they are an increase in alertness, irritability, violent behavior and restlessness. It is a high profile illicit drug. Notably, many rich people have shown an undying love for this. This fetish is one of the reasons why the drug cartels are enjoying a honeymoon period. What Is The Price Of An 8 Ball Of Coke? It is not easy to pinpoint the price of an 8 ball of coke. Various factors determine the street cocaine prices. For example, it depends on the supply, demand, and state they live in. In fact, determining the price of an illegal drug is almost impossible. This is true, even for the DEA officials. As a result, it creates a puzzle. There are many sources that claim the price of an 8 ball of coke to range from $60 to $80. While others report that cocaine prices in America are $120 per gram. This clearly shows how the price can vary by a huge margin. Hope Without Commitment Find the best treatment options. Call our free and confidential helpline Call Now: (888) 459-5511 Here is one authentic report on the price of cocaine. This is according to the analysis of Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA’s) System to Retrieve Information from Drug Evidence (STRIDE) data. It says the price of cocaine in January 2007 was $98 per gram. Likewise, the price per gram increased to $193 at the end of December 2013. The Economics Of Coke In The US Purer cocaine at a lower price only indicates the cutthroat competition among the drug suppliers in the US. From the 1980s to the present, this has been the trend of cocaine business. In fact, the vendors are using this strategy to establish their foothold in the drug world. This shows the dirty face of narco-terrorism. As per the DEA analysis, cocaine purity has stayed almost the same since the last few decades. That is at 90%. This trend has continued since its widespread availability in 1985. Yet, this is not the case for the crack, a crystal form of cocaine. There is a sharp fluctuation in the cocaine prices among different cities. Besides, the DEA officials say the prices may vary even within a city. This may have a link with the high variations in the purity. For these reasons, determining the prices of cocaine is a headache for them. An 8 Ball Of Coke Costs More Than The Dollars No doubt, cocaine causes many negative health effects. When you look at the economic burden of this problem, the price to pay only surges. In fact, cocaine ranks second among the drugs that cause overdose deaths. In 2014, 5856 Americans died by overdosing on it. Cocaine prices and visits to ER have an inverse relationship. Simply put, the higher the price, lower is the level of emergencies and death. This is according to a study published in Statistics in Medicine 1995. All things considered, the price you pay for an 8 ball of coke is definitely higher. After all, coke is nowhere near to the value of your life or health. Why They Use An 8 Ball Of Coke Instead Of 3.5 Grams As a matter of fact, finding the exact reason for this may not be possible. Nevertheless, the term “8 ball of coke” is famous among the drug dealers and the users. One probable reason might be that using such terms makes the deal secretive. That way, they might be able to prevent the flow of the information to the police. How Has Coke Supply Suffered In The Last Decade? Starting from early 2007, cocaine supply to the US has plunged. The most important factors for this include: Sliding cocaine production in Colombia Increased demand for cocaine across the globe especially in Europe Higher amount of cocaine seized through 2009 Increased counter-drug activities by the government of Mexico (This is according to the National Drug Threat Assessment 2010 report) Want To Know More? To learn more about the price of coke, talk to the experts. They can provide you the most accurate information on this. Looking for professional medical help for Cocaine addiction? Get the best rehabs page here . Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline (888) 459-5511 Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor. Feel hope without commitment. Cocaine Addiction & Rehab Resources The Effects of Cocaine Cocaine Withdrawal Symptoms and Timeline Cocaine Detox How Cocaine is Made How Cocaine is Cut Cocaine Rehab Guide Drug Rehab Resources Best Rehabs Rehab Reviews Local Rehabs Locator Free and State-Funded Rehabs Inpatient Rehabs Outpatient Rehabs Rehabs by State: Illinois Rehabs California Reviews Washington Rehabs Ohio Rehabs North Carolina Rehabs New York Rehabs Texas Rehabs Montana Rehabs More Rehab Resources Rehabs: Cocaine Rehab and Recovery MDMA Rehabs LSD Rehabs Spice Rehabs Marijuana Rehabs Crystal Meth Rehabs GHB Rehabs Jewish Rehabs Alcohol Treatment Centers Heroin Rehabs Jewish Rehabs Veterans Rehabs Holistic Rehabs LGBT Rehab Centers Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers Alcohol Hotlines Rehab Hotlines Drug Rehab Information Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs. Call (888) 459-5511 . The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.  This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. Addiction Resource Newsletter Receive useful information about the addiction treatment options, motivational success stories as well as other materials to help you beat or avoid addictions. Your Email Terms And Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us About Us © 2014–2018 AddictionResource.com. All Rights Reserved. Back to Top Your Treatment Can Be Free! Call our Confidential Helpline 24/7 Our treatment specialists offer: Free substance abuse treatment information Caring, supportive guidance Financial assistance options, verification of insurance benefits All calls are confidential and will be connected to Delphi Behavioral Health Group.  CALL NOW: (888) 459-5511 CLOSE                     Call 1-888-287-0471 Your new sober life starts here, it can start right now.  Who Answers?                 1-888-287-0471 Your new sober life starts here, it can start right now.  Who Answers?        Toggle navigation             Home    Addiction Treatment    Alcohol & Drugs    Prescription Drugs    Behavioral Health    Substance Abuse    Resources    Treatment Options    Podcast        Search                 You don't have to be an addict forever. Get help. Call Now.  1-888-287-0471   Sponsored by Top Treatment Centers   Who Answers?             GET REHAB     Can You Continue LYING to Yourself?  or  Do You Want to Get Help?    Friendly Treatment Advisors are available 24/7  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?   You can also contact us via:   Email  Live Chat    Or browse treatment in your area                  Live chat  Currently offline    To Receive a Call Back:        Request a call back    Or call us right now to talk to a caring advisor    1-888-287-0471              Home    Cocaine    Alcohol and Drugs    Cocaine Overdose              Cocaine Overdose    Written By:  Lauren Brande, MA       Article Summary Print     Common Signs of Use    Typical Overdose Symptoms    Treatment      html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/loose.dtd"  xml encoding="UTF-8" Cocaine is an illicit stimulant that can have a powerful impact on the user’s health and wellbeing. The powder form of cocaine is most commonly snorted or dissolved in liquid and injected. 1 The more potent, hard-rock form of cocaine is known as crack and can be smoked. 1 More than 900,000 people met the criteria for cocaine dependence or abuse in 2014, and abuse rates have remained fairly stable since 2009. 2  No matter the form, cocaine’s effects can come on quickly and some users will suffer an overdose and its potentially lasting consequences.  Nearly 5,500 people died from a cocaine overdose in 2014 alone , 3 and knowing the overdose symptoms may help someone get the medical help that he or she needs to survive it.  Common Signs of Use  Cocaine abuse can have detrimental effects on a person’s mental and physical health. There is even some evidence suggesting that cocaine can actually kill brain cells. 4 When cocaine is abused, the user experiences a multitude of reinforcing effects, from euphoria to increased energy and a sense of outgoingness. 5 Hidden behind this enrapturing face is a darker myriad of unpleasant, and sometimes dangerous, side effects.   Using cocaine can result in any number of worrisome symptoms : 5  Rapid heart rate.  Tightened blood vessels.  Increased blood pressure.  Dilated pupils.  High body temperature.  Behavioral effects:  Reduced appetite.  Restlessness or insomnia.  Anxiety, panic, or paranoia.  Strange or erratic behavior.  Tremors or muscle twitches.  On top of these basic effects, cocaine abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular consequences , including heart attacks; and neurological issues, including headaches, strokes, seizures, and sometimes coma. 6 When people use cocaine, they find that the sought-after euphoric effects seem to diminish over time, leading to an escalating use pattern that can have problematic results, including overdose.  Typical Overdose Symptoms   Listen to the Let's Talk Drugs Podcast   Let’s Talk Drugs is a new podcast that tackles common myths and themes about drugs and alcohol using the latest research and a sharp eye toward what’s really affecting people today. Read More    Cocaine abuse results in powerful stimulant effects. When taken in high doses, a person can lethally overstimulate their body and brain. This is known as a cocaine overdose. During an overdose, a cocaine user may experience the amplification of cocaine’s usual effects, such as increased heart rate and body temperature. Experiencing these extreme stimulant effects can lead to the failure of a number of organ systems and physiologic functions—causing the body or brain to shut down, and sometimes resulting in death.  Typical signs of a cocaine overdose include: 7  Dangerously high blood pressure.  Irregular heart rate.  Extremely high body temperature.  Extreme anxiety or confusion.  Psychosis.  Nausea.  Agitation or tremors.  These symptoms may precede the onset of a fatal heart attack, stroke, or seizure. Overdose death following cocaine use is generally the result of dangerous overstimulation, and the best way to prevent overdose death is to get treatment for cocaine abuse right away.    Sponsor    Desert Cove Recovery  15170 N. Hayden Road Suite 4  Scottsdale, Arizona 85260      Sponsor    Above All Recovery Center  3550 Powerline Rd  Oakland Park, Florida 33309      Sponsor    Behavioral Rehabilitation Services  355 W Mannsiding Rd  Harrison, Michigan 48625      Sponsor    Recovery Unplugged  915 Middle River Drive Suite 114  Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33304     Treatment  If you suspect that someone may be experiencing a cocaine overdose, it is vital that you call 911 right away. Immediate professional medical help is the best option to improve a person’s chances of survival.   Once help is on the way, there are a few things you can do to help a person suffering from cocaine overdose:  If users have a seizure, make sure there is nothing nearby that they can hurt themselves on.  Get a cold compress and put it on them to help keep their body temperature down.  Stay with them until medical help arrives.  Once they are in emergency care, they will be monitored closely for heart complications, temperature problems, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric issues. 8 In some cases, benzodiazepines are necessary to help calm the patient down . 8  The best way to avoid cocaine overdose is to not do cocaine at all. For some people, this means getting help with an existing abuse problem. Professional substance abuse treatment can help a user recover from a cocaine addiction through therapy, relapse prevention training, addiction education, learning effective coping strategies, and providing a sober network of support.    In 2016, Recovery Brands collected data that asked people leaving a treatment facility what clinic aspects they believed to be vital things to take into account when looking for treatment. At the top of the list was the program’s financial practices, such as payment options, insurance accepted, and financial support. They also valued the clinic’s offerings (extra activities, amenities, recreational options) a lot more after treatment. If you are new to treatment, you may want to examine a clinic’s payment policies, as well as clinic offerings, to inform your decision. Sources  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality (CBHSQ). Behavioral Health Trends in the United States: Results from the 2014 National Survey on Drug Use and Health . Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; 2015. HHS Publication No. SMA 15-4927, NSDUH Series H-50.  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  Guha, P., Harraz, M. M., & Snyder, S. H. (2016). Cocaine elicits autophagic cytotoxicity via a nitric oxide-GAPDH signaling cascade . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113 (5), 1417-1422.  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2016). What are the short-term effects of cocaine use?  Riezzo, I., Fiore, C., De Carlo, D., Pascale, N., Neri, M., Turillazzi, E., & Fineschi, V. (2012). Side effects of cocaine abuse: multiorgan toxicity and pathological consequences . Current Medicinal Chemistry , 19 (33). 5624-5646.  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .         Return to Top       Resources          Find Treatment in the Top States    California    Colorado    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    New York        Top 10 US Cities    Austin    Charlotte    Chicago    Columbus    Fort Worth    Houston    Indianapolis    Jacksonville    Los Angeles    Memphis        Find a Treatment Center Today    Call us toll free  1-888-287-0471  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers   Who Answers?     Request a free assessment  Free Assessment              Find A Facility Near You      Search by State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming     Cocaine     Addiction    Detox and Withdrawal    Cocaine Overdose    Alcohol and Drugs     Alcohol    Cocaine    Crack Cocaine    Crystal Meth    Ecstasy and MDMA    GHB    Hash    Heroin    Inhalant    Ketamine    LSD    Marijuana    Mescaline    Methamphetamine    Mushrooms    Opium    PCP    Peyote    Speed    Steroids    New and Designer Drugs     Other Local Clinics & Services     Intervention    Detox    Rehab    Sober Living       Call Today  Whether you need to find addiction treatment close to home or want to get clean start in a new environment, we can help.  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?        Call Today  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?        Commonly Abused Drugs    Alcohol    Cocaine    Crack Cocaine    Crystal Meth    Ecstasy & MDMA    Heroin    Marijuana    New and Designer Drugs      Behavioral Disorders    Eating Disorders    Gambling Addiction    Internet Addiction    Video Game Addiction        Prescription Drug Abuse    Prescription Drugs by Type    Amphetamine    Buprenorphine    Clonazepam    Codeine    Diazepam    Fentanyl    Hydrocodone    Lorazepam    Methadone    Methamphetamine    Morphine    Oxycodone    Tramadol    Zolpidem        Substance Abuse Help    Do I Drink Too Much?    Am I Addicted to Drugs?    How to Help an Addict or Alcoholic      Recent Articles    Violence Prevention    Behavioral Health Hotlines    Alcohol and Drug Rehab Hotlines      ProjectKnow.com Blog    Statistics      Struggling with Addiction?  Contact us today and let us get you on the right track.  You're Not Alone. Call Today   1-888-287-0471   Get in Touch Right Now   Who Answers?          Home    Addiction Treatment    Alcohol & Drugs    Prescription Drugs    Behavioral Health    Substance Abuse Help    Resources    Treatment Options    About Us        Project Know is a property of Sober Media Group.    Privacy Policy    Terms of Service    © Project Know 2018. All Rights Reserved.             How Our Help Line Works  If you’re seeking addiction treatment for yourself or a loved one, our ProjectKnow.com help line is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are available 24/7 to discuss treatment options with you.  Calls to any general help line (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) found on this site will be answered between the hours of 5:00am and 9:00pm Pacific by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.  You can connect with non-sponsor facilities by browsing our listings and calling them directly.                                  GENERAL INFORMATION    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      DRUG EFFECTS    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        GET HELP    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      SIGNS OF DRUG ABUSE    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol          Sections        General Information    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      Drug Effects    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        Get Help    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      Signs of Drug Abuse    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol      Blog    Forums    Directory    Overcome Your Addition Get Help Now.    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?           Browse Featured Rehabs         Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.  Porter, TX   5.0  Excellent  (1 review)          SpringBoard Recovery  Scottsdale, AZ   4.9  Excellent  (15 reviews)          Pathfinders Recovery Center  Lakewood, CO                Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Cocaine Overdose   Authored By Lauren Brande, MA    Table of Contents Print Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose Preventing Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine is a powerful stimulant drug and is capable of eliciting a number of pronounced, and often dangerous, effects throughout the user’s brain and body. It is found in powder form, which can be snorted, smoked, injected, or orally ingested; or rock form – also known as crack cocaine – which is almost always smoked 1 .  Because its effects come on relatively quickly and result in a euphoric, energetic high, many users fall into a dangerous pattern of escalating abuse. In 2014 alone, more than 5,500 people died from cocaine overdose 2 . Knowing the risks and symptoms of cocaine overdose may help save a life.    Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose  When a person abuses cocaine, their body experiences a number of sensations and physiologic changes, all relating back to its strong stimulant effects. These effects can spiral out of control when a person uses too much, leading to an overdose. During a cocaine overdose, the brain and body become dangerously overstimulated—resulting in a situation wherein commonly experienced cocaine effects, such as increased heart rate, are elevated to potentially lethal levels.    Arrhythmias (irregular heart rhythm).  Severe tachycardia (elevated heart rate).  Very high blood pressure.  Dangerously high body temperature.  Sweating.  Nausea.  Confusion.  Severe anxiety or agitation.  Psychosis.  Tremors.  Seizures.  Stroke.  The likelihood of an overdose is difficult to predict, as it can be influenced by a number of variables, including the purity of the sample, the method in which it is used, and the general health of the user. Make no mistake, though, even first-time users can die for cocaine overdose 1 .     One call could save your life. Call 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? today and begin your recovery.         1-888-744-0069   Treatment Advisors Are On Call 24/7   Who Answers?    Thinking About Getting Rehab?         Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine overdose can happen to anyone from a novice user to a regular abuser. If you take too much of a substance, the consequences can be dire. Though it may appear obvious, using cocaine at all is the biggest risk factor for cocaine overdose , and the best way to prevent overdose is to stop using cocaine .  Combining cocaine with other substances is also a major risk factor for overdose. When used with sedating or depressant drugs, cocaine’s stimulant effects may seem diminished, leading the user to more easily ingest toxic levels of each substance without fully realizing the extent of their intoxication. Combining cocaine with another stimulant like Ritalin may compound the stimulant effects, potentially leading to lethal consequences.  Cocaine is particularly dangerous to use with alcohol , as the combination produces a powerful toxin in the body called cocaethylene. Cocaethylene is eliminated even slower from the body than cocaine and can intensify the cardiotoxic effects, for example by further increasing the heart rate and enhancing the concentration of cocaine in the bloodstream 4 .  Another specific combination that can quickly be fatal is that of cocaine and heroin , also known as a “speedball.” Both of these substances have very powerful opposing effects, which may cause the subjective effects of each drug seem less intense. This can lead the user to take very high or unpredictable doses, thereby increasing their risk of lethal overdose 5 .  Finally, as a person uses cocaine, they begin to build up a tolerance to its effects. As tolerance increases, the user will need to continually increase the dose in order to counteract it and get “high.” Doing so is a major risk factor for eventual overdose.     What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose  If you notice the signs and symptoms of cocaine overdose in yourself or someone else,  call 911 right away to get emergency medical help .  Cocaine overdose death can happen relatively quickly, so the faster you get the person medical attention, the better the chances of survival.  While you are waiting for professional medical help, there are a couple things you can do to help a person experiencing cocaine overdose:   Apply a cold compress to keep their body temperature at a safe level.  If the person is experiencing a seizure, make sure there is nothing around them that can injure them, such as sharp edges or hard objects.  Most importantly, stay with the person until medical help arrives.   Once in the care of emergency personnel, the individual will be monitored for body temperature, cardiac complications, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric complications. When appropriate, benzodiazepines may be used in order to calm the patient and mitigate psychological distress 6 .  Preventing Cocaine Overdose The only sure way to prevent cocaine overdose is to stop using cocaine. Those who continue to use it will notice that their cocaine tolerance builds quickly. As tolerance mounts, people often begin to exhibit binge patterns of use, which can further solidify a developing addiction and, furthermore, greatly increase their risk of overdose. Getting help with a cocaine abuse problem may be the difference between life and death.  Treatment for cocaine abuse will help users identify the thought patterns and behaviors that trigger their use and practical methods to help resist the urge to use. It can also help a person examine their own personal reasons for turning to cocaine abuse and how they can practice healthy coping strategies for future relapse temptations. Call us today at 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? to find quality treatment for cocaine abuse for yourself or a loved one-it’s never too late to get help. References:  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  McCance, E. F., Price, L. H., Kosten, T. R., & Jatlow, P. I. (1995). Cocaethylene: pharmacology, physiology and behavioral effects in humans . The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 274 (1). 215-223.  Ochoa, K. C., Hahn, J. A., Seal, K. H., & Moss, A. R. (2001). Overdosing among young injection drug users in San Francisco . Addictive Behaviors, 26 . 453-460.  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .   Related Posts: Why Isn’t Anyone Talking About a Resurgence of Cocaine A Look at the Physical Anatomy of an Overdose Meet Cocaine and Her Wicked Step-Child, Crack 3 Devastatingly Dangerous Alcohol-Drug Combos Warning: 3 Dangerous Suboxone Interactions to Avoid Cocaine Could Mess With Your Brain’s Ability to Recognize…      A Better Today Recovery Services      1122 NE 122nd Ave.   Portland , OR  97230        Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.      4107 Acorn Ln   Porter , TX  77365        AToN Center      3250 Country Rose Circle   San Diego , CA  92024        Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?     It's not too late to turn your life around...   Learn More      I Want To Learn About:     Alcohol Intervention Programs    Drug Intervention Programs    Get the Facts on Alcohol Abuse    Get the Facts on Substance Abuse           Use Our New Directory To Find Treatment Today  Search     Overcome Your Addiction   Get Help Now.   1-888-744-0069   Who Answers?  Connect to a treatment center.  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers        Recent Posts     Let’s Talk About the Dark Side of Suboxone       New Drug Testing Technology Makes Urine Samples a Thing of the Past       Fentanyl: The Newest Lethal Injection Ingredient            Need Help Overcoming Addiction?    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?        Search By State  Select a State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    District Of Columbia    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming       Need Help Finding Treatment?                © DrugAbuse.com 2018. All Rights Reserved   Privacy Policy  Terms of Service   DrugAbuse.com is a property of Sober Media Group      You're Ready to Escape Addiction    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?              Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?    Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?           Name:         Email:         Phone Number:         I Am:     ---  The Addicted Person  A Family Member  A Friend  A Co-Worker  A Doctor/Therapist  Other       Ability to Finance:     ---  There is Ample Money or Private Insurance  There is Some Money or Private Insurance  There is No Money or Private Insurance  I Am Interested in Financing  I Am Not Sure       Addiction(s):     ---  Alcohol  Illicit (Street) Drugs  Prescription Drugs  A Combination of Substances  Other Addiction       Any Other Important Details:          I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .    SEND   Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Ratione ipsa excepturi quae cum magnam quibusdam quos quam pariatur, libero veritatis aut harum, laborum similique optio natus, nulla possimus necessitatibus soluta!     Your information will be provided to a leading treatment center who is a paid sponsor of DrugAbuse.com and who can help answer your questions about addiction treatment options.       About the DrugAbuse.com Toll-Free Helpline and Directory  Each year, the DrugAbuse.com hotline connects thousands of people with substance abuse treatment programs throughout the U.S. toll-free. Calls are answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) who have treatment support specialists available 24/7, 365 days a year.  Both our treatment directory and our hotline are offered at no cost to you.  Where Else Can I Find Help?   National Hotlines:   SAMHSA Facility Locator - http://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/index.html 1-800-662-HELP (4357)	Free and confidential information in English and Spanish for individuals and family members facing substance abuse and mental health issues. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Suicide Prevention Lifeline - http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ 1-800-273-TALK (8255)	24-hour, toll-free, confidential suicide prevention hotline available to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress. Your call is routed to the nearest crisis center in the national network of more than 150 crisis centers.  American Association of Poison Control Centers - http://www.aapcc.org/ For a poisoning emergency in the U.S. call 1-800-222-1222	The American Association of Poison Control Centers supports the nation’s 55 poison centers in their efforts to prevent and treat poison exposures. Poison centers offer free, confidential medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week   Nonprofit Treatment Centers:   Betty Ford Center - http://www.bettyfordcenter.org/index.php   Phoenix House - http://www.phoenixhouse.org/   Caron - http://www.caron.org/   Odyssey House - http://www.odysseyhouse.org/   Recovery Gateway - http://recovergateway.org/   Dawn Farm - http://dawnfarm.org/   Austin Recovery - http://www.austinrecovery.org/    Recovery Programs:   Alcoholics Anonymous - http://www.aa.org/   Narcotics Anonymous - http://www.na.org/   Smart Recovery - http://www.smartrecovery.org/       Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?   Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Select your state and then choose Alcohol Treatment or Drug Treatment   Please choose a state  Alabama  Alaska  Arizona  Arkansas  California  Colorado  Connecticut  Delaware  Florida  Georgia  Hawaii  Idaho  Illinois  Indiana  Iowa  Kansas  Kentucky  Louisiana  Maine  Maryland  Massachusetts  Michigan  Minnesota  Mississippi  Missouri  Montana  Nevada  New Hampshire  New Jersey  New Mexico  New York  North Carolina  North Dakota  Ohio  Oklahoma  Oregon  Pennsylvania  Rhode Island  South Carolina  South Dakota  Tennessee  Texas  Utah  Vermont  Virginia  Washington  West Virginia  Wisconsin  Wyoming    Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment                              GENERAL INFORMATION    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      DRUG EFFECTS    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        GET HELP    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      SIGNS OF DRUG ABUSE    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol          Sections        General Information    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      Drug Effects    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        Get Help    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      Signs of Drug Abuse    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol      Blog    Forums    Directory    Overcome Your Addition Get Help Now.    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?           Browse Featured Rehabs         Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.  Porter, TX   5.0  Excellent  (1 review)          SpringBoard Recovery  Scottsdale, AZ   4.9  Excellent  (15 reviews)          Pathfinders Recovery Center  Lakewood, CO                Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Cocaine Overdose   Authored By Lauren Brande, MA    Table of Contents Print Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose Preventing Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine is a powerful stimulant drug and is capable of eliciting a number of pronounced, and often dangerous, effects throughout the user’s brain and body. It is found in powder form, which can be snorted, smoked, injected, or orally ingested; or rock form – also known as crack cocaine – which is almost always smoked 1 .  Because its effects come on relatively quickly and result in a euphoric, energetic high, many users fall into a dangerous pattern of escalating abuse. In 2014 alone, more than 5,500 people died from cocaine overdose 2 . Knowing the risks and symptoms of cocaine overdose may help save a life.    Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose  When a person abuses cocaine, their body experiences a number of sensations and physiologic changes, all relating back to its strong stimulant effects. These effects can spiral out of control when a person uses too much, leading to an overdose. During a cocaine overdose, the brain and body become dangerously overstimulated—resulting in a situation wherein commonly experienced cocaine effects, such as increased heart rate, are elevated to potentially lethal levels.    Arrhythmias (irregular heart rhythm).  Severe tachycardia (elevated heart rate).  Very high blood pressure.  Dangerously high body temperature.  Sweating.  Nausea.  Confusion.  Severe anxiety or agitation.  Psychosis.  Tremors.  Seizures.  Stroke.  The likelihood of an overdose is difficult to predict, as it can be influenced by a number of variables, including the purity of the sample, the method in which it is used, and the general health of the user. Make no mistake, though, even first-time users can die for cocaine overdose 1 .     One call could save your life. Call 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? today and begin your recovery.         1-888-744-0069   Treatment Advisors Are On Call 24/7   Who Answers?    Thinking About Getting Rehab?         Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine overdose can happen to anyone from a novice user to a regular abuser. If you take too much of a substance, the consequences can be dire. Though it may appear obvious, using cocaine at all is the biggest risk factor for cocaine overdose , and the best way to prevent overdose is to stop using cocaine .  Combining cocaine with other substances is also a major risk factor for overdose. When used with sedating or depressant drugs, cocaine’s stimulant effects may seem diminished, leading the user to more easily ingest toxic levels of each substance without fully realizing the extent of their intoxication. Combining cocaine with another stimulant like Ritalin may compound the stimulant effects, potentially leading to lethal consequences.  Cocaine is particularly dangerous to use with alcohol , as the combination produces a powerful toxin in the body called cocaethylene. Cocaethylene is eliminated even slower from the body than cocaine and can intensify the cardiotoxic effects, for example by further increasing the heart rate and enhancing the concentration of cocaine in the bloodstream 4 .  Another specific combination that can quickly be fatal is that of cocaine and heroin , also known as a “speedball.” Both of these substances have very powerful opposing effects, which may cause the subjective effects of each drug seem less intense. This can lead the user to take very high or unpredictable doses, thereby increasing their risk of lethal overdose 5 .  Finally, as a person uses cocaine, they begin to build up a tolerance to its effects. As tolerance increases, the user will need to continually increase the dose in order to counteract it and get “high.” Doing so is a major risk factor for eventual overdose.     What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose  If you notice the signs and symptoms of cocaine overdose in yourself or someone else,  call 911 right away to get emergency medical help .  Cocaine overdose death can happen relatively quickly, so the faster you get the person medical attention, the better the chances of survival.  While you are waiting for professional medical help, there are a couple things you can do to help a person experiencing cocaine overdose:   Apply a cold compress to keep their body temperature at a safe level.  If the person is experiencing a seizure, make sure there is nothing around them that can injure them, such as sharp edges or hard objects.  Most importantly, stay with the person until medical help arrives.   Once in the care of emergency personnel, the individual will be monitored for body temperature, cardiac complications, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric complications. When appropriate, benzodiazepines may be used in order to calm the patient and mitigate psychological distress 6 .  Preventing Cocaine Overdose The only sure way to prevent cocaine overdose is to stop using cocaine. Those who continue to use it will notice that their cocaine tolerance builds quickly. As tolerance mounts, people often begin to exhibit binge patterns of use, which can further solidify a developing addiction and, furthermore, greatly increase their risk of overdose. Getting help with a cocaine abuse problem may be the difference between life and death.  Treatment for cocaine abuse will help users identify the thought patterns and behaviors that trigger their use and practical methods to help resist the urge to use. It can also help a person examine their own personal reasons for turning to cocaine abuse and how they can practice healthy coping strategies for future relapse temptations. Call us today at 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? to find quality treatment for cocaine abuse for yourself or a loved one-it’s never too late to get help. References:  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  McCance, E. F., Price, L. H., Kosten, T. R., & Jatlow, P. I. (1995). Cocaethylene: pharmacology, physiology and behavioral effects in humans . The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 274 (1). 215-223.  Ochoa, K. C., Hahn, J. A., Seal, K. H., & Moss, A. R. (2001). Overdosing among young injection drug users in San Francisco . Addictive Behaviors, 26 . 453-460.  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .   Related Posts: Why Isn’t Anyone Talking About a Resurgence of Cocaine A Look at the Physical Anatomy of an Overdose Meet Cocaine and Her Wicked Step-Child, Crack 3 Devastatingly Dangerous Alcohol-Drug Combos Warning: 3 Dangerous Suboxone Interactions to Avoid Cocaine Could Mess With Your Brain’s Ability to Recognize…      Bluff Plantation      963 Bennock Mill Rd   Augusta , GA  30906        Covenant Hills Treatment Center      32236 Paseo Adelanto, Sui...   San Juan Capistrano , CA  92629        California Highlands Addiction Treatment      300 S. Highland Springs A...   Banning , CA  92220        Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?     It's not too late to turn your life around...   Learn More      I Want To Learn About:     Alcohol Intervention Programs    Drug Intervention Programs    Get the Facts on Alcohol Abuse    Get the Facts on Substance Abuse           Use Our New Directory To Find Treatment Today  Search     Overcome Your Addiction   Get Help Now.   1-888-744-0069   Who Answers?  Connect to a treatment center.  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers        Recent Posts     Let’s Talk About the Dark Side of Suboxone       New Drug Testing Technology Makes Urine Samples a Thing of the Past       Fentanyl: The Newest Lethal Injection Ingredient            Need Help Overcoming Addiction?    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?        Search By State  Select a State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    District Of Columbia    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming       Need Help Finding Treatment?                © DrugAbuse.com 2018. All Rights Reserved   Privacy Policy  Terms of Service   DrugAbuse.com is a property of Sober Media Group      You're Ready to Escape Addiction    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?              Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?    Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?           Name:         Email:         Phone Number:         I Am:     ---  The Addicted Person  A Family Member  A Friend  A Co-Worker  A Doctor/Therapist  Other       Ability to Finance:     ---  There is Ample Money or Private Insurance  There is Some Money or Private Insurance  There is No Money or Private Insurance  I Am Interested in Financing  I Am Not Sure       Addiction(s):     ---  Alcohol  Illicit (Street) Drugs  Prescription Drugs  A Combination of Substances  Other Addiction       Any Other Important Details:          I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .    SEND   Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Ratione ipsa excepturi quae cum magnam quibusdam quos quam pariatur, libero veritatis aut harum, laborum similique optio natus, nulla possimus necessitatibus soluta!     Your information will be provided to a leading treatment center who is a paid sponsor of DrugAbuse.com and who can help answer your questions about addiction treatment options.       About the DrugAbuse.com Toll-Free Helpline and Directory  Each year, the DrugAbuse.com hotline connects thousands of people with substance abuse treatment programs throughout the U.S. toll-free. Calls are answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) who have treatment support specialists available 24/7, 365 days a year.  Both our treatment directory and our hotline are offered at no cost to you.  Where Else Can I Find Help?   National Hotlines:   SAMHSA Facility Locator - http://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/index.html 1-800-662-HELP (4357)	Free and confidential information in English and Spanish for individuals and family members facing substance abuse and mental health issues. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Suicide Prevention Lifeline - http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ 1-800-273-TALK (8255)	24-hour, toll-free, confidential suicide prevention hotline available to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress. Your call is routed to the nearest crisis center in the national network of more than 150 crisis centers.  American Association of Poison Control Centers - http://www.aapcc.org/ For a poisoning emergency in the U.S. call 1-800-222-1222	The American Association of Poison Control Centers supports the nation’s 55 poison centers in their efforts to prevent and treat poison exposures. Poison centers offer free, confidential medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week   Nonprofit Treatment Centers:   Betty Ford Center - http://www.bettyfordcenter.org/index.php   Phoenix House - http://www.phoenixhouse.org/   Caron - http://www.caron.org/   Odyssey House - http://www.odysseyhouse.org/   Recovery Gateway - http://recovergateway.org/   Dawn Farm - http://dawnfarm.org/   Austin Recovery - http://www.austinrecovery.org/    Recovery Programs:   Alcoholics Anonymous - http://www.aa.org/   Narcotics Anonymous - http://www.na.org/   Smart Recovery - http://www.smartrecovery.org/       Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?   Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Select your state and then choose Alcohol Treatment or Drug Treatment   Please choose a state  Alabama  Alaska  Arizona  Arkansas  California  Colorado  Connecticut  Delaware  Florida  Georgia  Hawaii  Idaho  Illinois  Indiana  Iowa  Kansas  Kentucky  Louisiana  Maine  Maryland  Massachusetts  Michigan  Minnesota  Mississippi  Missouri  Montana  Nevada  New Hampshire  New Jersey  New Mexico  New York  North Carolina  North Dakota  Ohio  Oklahoma  Oregon  Pennsylvania  Rhode Island  South Carolina  South Dakota  Tennessee  Texas  Utah  Vermont  Virginia  Washington  West Virginia  Wisconsin  Wyoming    Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment              Ads from Google:                            Google ad      End of ad      Google Adsense ad        End of ads.         Independent expert answers on psychiatry and psychology        Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Abstract: Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine.               Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account                    MORE INFO  Addictions  ADHD  Anorexia  Anxiety, panic  Bulimia  Child care  Burnout  Depression  Healthy living  Instability  Life  Mood swings  Obesity  Personality  Phobia  Psychotherapy  Medicines  Relations  Sex  Sleep  Stress  Treatment   All answers  All categories  Tell a friend about Web4Health  This web site in other languages                 Independent medical expert answers on psychiatry and psychology     Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question  Info                                      Top   Discuss this  Get expert advice   Print           Question(s):    Written by: Wendy Moelker , Psychologist in charge, tutor, Emergis center for mental health care, Goes, the Netherlands.   First version: 22 Jul 2008. Latest revision: 22 Jul 2008.       Is it possible to overdose by sniffing cocaine?  Answer:    Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine. When the effects of the cocaine turn out badly, the user feels restless, anxious and suspicious. Sometimes the user feels so suspicious that it can turn into paranoid delusions. For
example, users may be afraid that they are being followed.  However, an overdose can be worse and lead to heart and respiratory problems resulting in death, especially with intravenous use and smoking or basing cocaine. When cocaine is injected, death can follow very fast, even after only a few minutes. Smoking or basing can also have the same effects. Fortunately, a lethal overdose is fairly uncommon.  The causes of a fatal overdose are:    Disturbance of the heart and blood vessel system. An overdose can lead to a strong irregular functioning of the heart,
and eventually failure of the heart. It can cause high blood pressure, and as a result, bleeding in the brain leading to a greater possibility of death by brain hemorrhage.   Repeated convulsions , which can happen in such quick succession that consciousness cannot be restored.   Respiratory problems resulting in respiratory failure.   There are a lot of differences in toxic or deadly doses. Some users stay alive after using a few grams while others who are allergic to cocaine can die of a small dose. The exact amount of cocaine that causes an overdose varies from person to person and depends on a variety of factors including physical condition and possible diseases. Obviously, heart problems or a blood vessel disorder in the brain increase the risk of an overdose. The
combination of cocaine with other narcotics or alcohol can increase the risks as well. Therefore, it is difficult to determine a standard for a too high dosage, also because cocaine is often cut up.  In medical literature, there is a difference between a fatal and a lethal dose. A fatal dose causes death in 100% of the cases. A lethal dose causes death in 50% of the cases.  Some doctors estimate that 1.2 grams of cocaine, when used orally, and 750-800 milligrams, when used intravenously or by inhaling, is fatal.
It is unknown how much cocaine is fatal when sniffed. (Source: Cocaine Vraagbaak, Federatie van Instellingen voor Alcohol en Drugs, 1986). A user sniffs 0.1-0.2 grams of cocaine, i.e., 2-4 lines a night.  The average lethal dose of intravenous use of cocaine is about
500 milligrams. That doesn't mean, however that a smaller dose is
safe. An estimated lethal dose when sniffing cocaine is unknown. These doses are estimates.  It is important to act rationally and fast when someone has an overdose. When the user is anxious or restless, try to calm him down. Bring him to a quiet place and never react to his delusions. It will only make him more restless. Try to talk about something else. If you notice heart or respiratory problems, contact a doctor.        See more information         Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question:   Info                         Google ad      End of ad     More Information  Is it possible to use cocaine in a sensible way?  Damaging physical smoking cocaine effects  The treatment of cocaine addiction  When the use of cocaine gets out of hand  More articles about cocaine, addiction and substance abuse          Sources, references                                                                                  Disclaimer: The documents
contained in this web site are presented for information
purposes only. The material is in no way intended to
replace professional medical care or attention by a
qualified psychiatrist or psychotherapist. It can not and should not be used
as a basis for diagnosis or choice of treatment. If you
find anything wrong, please notify us at .         To top of page                Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account           Web4Health in other languages: Finnish  German  Greek  Italian  Polish  Russian  Swedish  add-cocaine-overdose  Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health   Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health. Web4Health was selected as finalist for the 2008 Stockholm Challenge Award                       Non-Google/Clickviper Ads:  Translate Web4Health  We seek voluntary translators who are interested in translating Web4Health
to new languages. We can provide the servers, and pay you 50 % of the
income from ads on pages, which you have translated. We are especially interested
in translators from German To English, From German, Swedish or English to
French, Spanish, Italian, Greek, Finnish, Polish, Farsi, Russian.  web4health.info/en/tr/   Advertise here  Reach 300 000 visitors reading one million pages for a cost of 600 US $/month.  /en/ad/                                                                          (888) 966-8152  Ready to get help? Our Treatment Consultants are available 24/7.         Live Chat            Fill out the form below to email us. * Indicates required field              What can we help you with?                      By submitting this form you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the website.                     Press "Enter" to search       Treatment Services   Drug Addiction Treatment Programs  Dual Diagnosis Treatment Curriculum  Systemic Family Intervention Program  Drug Recovery – Aftercare  Fire Services  Law Enforcement  Veterans & their Families    Treatment Centers   River Oaks Treatment Center  Greenhouse  Desert Hope  San Diego Addiction Treatment Center  Clinical Services of Rhode Island (CSRI)  Laguna Treatment Hospital  Oxford Treatment Center  Sunrise House  Recovery First  Resolutions – Sober Living  Solutions Recovery  Townsend Treatment Centers    Admissions   Sample Schedule  Payment Options  What To Bring  Alcohol and Drug Addiction Intervention Help  Addiction Disease    About Us   Client Outcomes Study  Media  Brochures  Investor Relations  Academic Scholarship  Events  FAQs  Contact Us  Why AAC?    Rehab   12-Step Model  Alcohol Rehab  Detox Centers  Effective Programs  Evidence-based  Finding the Best Center  Insurance Coverage  LGBT and Gay-friendly  Residential  Co-Occurring Disorders   Behavioral Addictions  Depression  Eating Disorders  Eating Disorders in Males  PTSD    Featured Content   Binge Eating Recovery Guide  Guide to Teen Treatment Options  Substance Abuse & HIV/AIDS  Treatment of Firefighters & First Responders  Treatment Resources for Veterans    Blog    Detox   Ambien  Alcohol  Alprazolam / Xanax  Buprenorphine / Suboxone  Clonazepam / Klonopin  Cocaine  Hydrocodone  Opiates Overview  OxyContin  Tramadol  Vicodin    Addiction   Alcoholism  Amphetamine  Ativan  Barbiturate  Benzodiazepines  Cocaine  Fentanyl  Heroin  Inhalants Abuse  Kratom  Marijuana  Medications Used  Meth  Morphine  OxyContin  Prescription Drugs   Ambien Addiction – Treatment, Signs and Risks  Drug Classifications    Suboxone  Valium  Xanax    Reviews  Careers     Our Community   Alumni  Treatment Professionals    MENU       Press "Enter" to search   Home  Facilities   Greenhouse Treatment Center  Desert Hope Treatment Center  San Diego Addiction Treatment Center  Clinical Services of Rhode Island (CSRI)  River Oaks Treatment Center  Oxford Treatment Center  Sunrise House Treatment Center  Recovery First Treatment Center  Solutions Recovery  Townsend Treatment Centers  Laguna Treatment Hospital    Services   Drug Addiction Treatment Programs  Dual Diagnosis Treatment Curriculum  Systemic Family Intervention Program  Drug Recovery – Aftercare  Fire Services  Law Enforcement    Blog   Facts for Parents and Teens  Current Events  Greenhouse  Desert Hope  Recovery Alumni Resources  First Responders    Rehab Resources   Addiction Treatment  Co-Occurring Disorders  Behavioral Addictions  Drug Withdrawal  Finding an Eating Disorder Treatment Center  Client Outcomes Study    Treatment Professionals  Investor Relations  Contact Us    100% Confidential - Insurance Accepted (888) 966-8152            Cocaine Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers        Home Cocaine Addiction and Treatment Cocaine Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers       One of the most infamous drugs in the world, cocaine is a powerful stimulant that can be highly addictive . Synthesized from the coca plant, a plant native to South America, cocaine is popular throughout the globe due to some of the short-term effects that accompany its use.      Cocaine can bring on feelings of euphoria, foster increased alertness in the user, and result in hypersensitivity to outside stimuli. While there can be both negative psychological and physical effects in the short-term, as well as long-term consequences, the most immediate danger associated with cocaine is overdose.  According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), cocaine overdose is brought on by a person taking enough of the drug for it to reach toxic levels in their system, causing a serious reaction within the body. Essentially, cocaine can poison the system, and toxic levels do not appear to be completely dictated by dosage. According to the University of Arizona , there have been cases of overdose from a few hundred milligrams, while some users can ingest several grams of cocaine without overdosing. This suggests that overdose toxicity can depend largely on the individual user and their specific susceptibility to the toxins.     Potency of the drug is also known to vary greatly, as cocaine in its street drug form is often mixed or “cut” with other materials in order to increase profits for dealers. This means that the potency of one gram of cocaine from one source can be significantly different from one gram of the drug from another source.    For a time, especially in the early portion of the 1980s, cocaine was not generally seen as a harmful drug but simply one that created positive short-term effects. However, as overdoses became more common, word got out that cocaine could be extremely dangerous. The overdose and death of basketball star Len Bias, an athlete that seemed almost superhuman, was a glaring example of the perils of cocaine use.   Symptoms of an Overdose  Cocaine causes the heart rate of a user to increase, which can result in heart problems. Elevated blood pressure is also common, another factor that can lead to serious health complications. Physical symptoms of cocaine overdose include but are not limited to:     Elevated heart rate  Rise in body temperature  Nausea and vomiting      Pain in the chest  Tremors     Some psychological symptoms of a cocaine overdose include:     Panicked feelings  Anxiety      Delirium  Paranoia     Dangers of an Overdose  It’s extremely important for those present to recognize any potential indicators of an overdose, as time is a crucial factor in such a situation. Cocaine is one of the more serious stimulants available, mainly because of the potential for overdose leading to death, which can occur due to a multitude of complications, including heart attack, seizure and stroke.     According to NIDA , cocaine-related death totals have seen significant fluctuation in the last decade or so. In 2006, there were more than 7,000 cocaine-related deaths in the nation, the highest number in the last 15 years. The totals steadily declined following that year, bottoming out around 4,000 in 2010. However, since 2010, cocaine-related deaths have been on the rise again. In 2015, there was a 1.6-fold increase in deaths from 2010, the highest rate since 2006. As far as gender is concerned, these statistics show that males are much more likely to overdose on cocaine than females, averaging an approximate 3:1 ratio of male to female.    Polydrug use in cocaine overdoses is common, especially in overdoses resulting in death. Opioids, a drug group that includes prescription painkillers, are associated with a large number of cocaine deaths every year. It’s a trend that is on the rise as well, according to NIDA. In 2010, the numbers of cocaine overdose deaths involving opioids and those not involving opioids were essentially equal. By 2015, the number of annual cocaine overdose deaths involving opioids had more than doubled, while overdose deaths not involving the use of opioids had increased at a much less significant rate. This implies that not only is polydrug use with cocaine increasing, but it’s also becoming more fatal.  While death is certainly the most drastic of the consequences of cocaine overdose, it is not the only one. A heart attack, stroke, or seizure brought on by an overdose can do significant damage to the human body without resulting in death.  Recognizing the symptoms of cocaine use can be a good tool for overdose prevention. As noted earlier, the potential for potency differences in batches of cocaine means even a casual user runs the risk of overdose. Narconon notes the following physical and psychological symptoms of cocaine use:     Nose constantly running  Frequent nosebleeds      Dilated pupils  Unusual level of excitement  Overconfidence      Paranoia  Increased aggression     Symptoms that are often present following prolonged use or bingeing include:      Agitated behavior  Depression      Apathetic attitude  Excessive sleeping     While casual users are in danger, the risk of overdose increases dramatically for more serious users. Those with an addiction to the drug often take it in binges, ingesting a large amount of the substance in a short period of time. According to NIDA , short-term effects from this type of use can be drastic. A user’s heart rate can be disturbed, which can lead to the aforementioned heart attack risk. Serious neurological effects ranging all the way from headaches to coma are possible as well. Cocaine users can also experience gastrointestinal problems.   In cases of polydrug use featuring a combination of cocaine and alcohol, the heart is put in grave danger due to the toxicity of the cocktail being heightened by the mixture. Polydrug use of cocaine and heroin, sometimes referred to as a “speedball,” can be extremely hazardous as well.  Long-term effects of cocaine can also be drastic. Abusers of cocaine will often experience an increase in tolerance, meaning that larger quantities of the drug need to be consumed in order to achieve the same effects that were achieved before the tolerance increase. Long-term psychological effects are common, ranging from irritability all the way to psychosis. In extreme cases, a user can completely lose their connection to reality and even experience hallucinations.      Long-term physical effects vary, depending on the method of consumption. Cocaine commonly comes in the form of a fine white powder, and the most popular ingestion method is snorting it through the nose. The act of snorting the substance results in the effects of the drug being felt quickly after consumption, but over time, it can lead to various issues, such as nosebleeds, loss of the sense of smell, and difficulty swallowing.  Crack, another popular form of cocaine, is found in the form of a crystal rock, and it is usually smoked. This can do damage to the lungs. Taking cocaine intravenously increases the risk of contracting diseases commonly associated with sharing needles, such as hepatitis C and HIV. Internal damage is also possible with long-term cocaine use. The gastrointestinal tract can be damaged by a lack of blood flow, and heart tissue can become inflamed or ruptured. The brain is also very susceptible to the effects of cocaine. The expansion of cerebral blood vessels and cerebral bleeding are some of the neurological issues that arise with long-term abuse. Parkinson’s disease, a condition that affects movement and can bring on tremors, can also be an effect of cocaine use. Over time, cocaine use can have negative effects on basic brain function, such as decision-making, memory, and motor functions. It’s clear that even if a user survives long-term cocaine abuse, there are other major health concerns that can crop up. In the Event of an Overdose If you suspect a cocaine overdose, the first thing to do is call 911, as the situation demands professional medical assistance. If the user is having a seizure, it is important to keep them away from any objects that might injure them due to their body movement. A cold compress can be useful in helping to decrease body temperature.  In the event that a cocaine user survives an overdose, getting them into a treatment program is crucial. According to the Foundation for a Drug-Free World , cocaine use is high among those ages 18 to 25. This means that young people are putting themselves at risk for major health problems and even death due to overdose. Getting someone help before an overdose is obviously ideal, and there are effective treatment methods available to those in need. Behavioral therapies have proven to be useful in treating cocaine addiction. Contingency Management , an incentive-based program has shown to be effective in rewarding those in recovery for abstaining from drug use. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is useful in helping clients avoid relapse by developing new skills to cope with situations and triggers that could lead to cocaine use. Therapeutic communities and comprehensive treatment facilities foster recovery in an immersive environment, which can be crucial in the vulnerable stages of early recovery. Overall, there are plenty of options available to help those struggling with cocaine abuse and addiction. Getting professional help as soon as possible is the best way to prevent a cocaine overdose; it can mean the difference between life and death.        We're Here For You  Call Anytime   (888) 966-8152   Consultants available 24/7        Explore:   Cocaine Addiction and Treatment    Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers  Withdrawal Symptoms, Timeline and Treatment Crack Addiction: Signs, Symptoms, and Treatment Dangers of Use in Pregnancy Dangers of Snorting, Smoking, or Injecting Cocaine Differences between Crack & Cocaine How to Help an Addict How Long Does It Stay in Your System? Is Cocaine Physically Addictive? Is It Physically Addictive? Long-Term Side Effects of Abuse Mixing Cocaine and Alcohol: Effects and Dangers Signs of Abuse Slang and Nicknames Symptoms of Addiction, Use, and Abuse The Long-Term Effects on Mind and Body The Risks of Addiction What Are the Effects on the Brain? What Is It Cut With? What You Need to Know about Freebasing  Back To:   Cocaine Addiction and Treatment          Loved One in Need of an Intervention?    See Our Intervention Program                Top     Start The Admissions Process Now     Free.  Your 1-on-1 consultation and Insurance Verification are 100% Free        Easy.  All you have to do is pick up the phone and call or chat now        Confidential.  We will never share your information with a third party without your explicit consent       Call Now (888) 966-8152        AAC's family of addiction treatment facilities includes programs that meet the standards of excellence for CARF Three-Year Accreditations, Joint Commission Accreditation, and COLA (Addiction Labs).  Our CARF Accredited Facilities  CARF has accredited American Addiction Centers for the following:   San Diego , California  Singer Island , Florida  River Oaks Treatment Center , Florida  Desert Hope , Nevada  Clinical Services of Rhode Island , Rhode Island  Greenhouse , Texas  Sunrise House , New Jersey  Oxford Treatment Center , Mississippi   More info on carf.org        Notice of Privacy Practices  Online Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Brand Promise Details  Careers  Contact Us      American Addiction Centers   (888) 966-8152  200 Powell Pl  Brentwood , TN  37027              Sign up to receive our email newsletters! *                  © 2018 American Addiction Centers      Confidential — Insurance Accepted  Call (888) 966-8152                        Contact Us   Insurance   Admissions   Teen Addiction  Search         352.771.2700   Recovery Is Possible Drug Addiction Drug Addiction Overview Commonly Abused Drugs Alcohol Cocaine Heroin Marijuana Meth Xanax Stimulants Adderall Amphetamines Bath Salts Crack Ecstasy, MDMA Spice, K2 Opioid/Opiates Codeine Fentanyl OxyContin Hydrocodone Dilaudid Lortab Kratom Morphine Oxycodone Vicodin Benzodiazepines Ativan Klonopin Valium Librium Prescription Drugs Percocet Methadone Ambien Tramadol Suboxone Subutex Narcan Ultram Fioricet Trazodone Drug Index Ayahuasca CBD (Cannabidiol) Kava Peyote    Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?     Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic     Alcohol Hotline     Drug Abuse Hotline    Need help? Call us today.  352.771.2700  Addiction Treatment Drug Addiction Treatment Alcoholism Treatment Medical Detox Inpatient Rehab Partial Hospitalization Intensive Outpatient Outpatient Rehab Aftercare Dual Diagnosis Understanding Treatment Drug Rehab Drug Detox Intervention Friends & Family Portal Our Treatment Philosophy Treatment Therapies Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Dialectical Behavioral Therapy Individual/Group Therapy Intensive Therapy Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab Substance Abuse Counseling Co-Occurring Disorders Anxiety Disorder Bipolar Disorder Borderline Personality Disorder Depression Eating Disorder Grief OCD PTSD    10 Tips to Help Family Members of Addicts Cope     10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help     Marijuana Hotline     Heroin Hotline    Need help? Call us today.  352.771.2700  Locations Locations Overview Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL) Orlando Recovery Center (FL) The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO) The Recovery Village Columbus (OH) The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA) Specialty Rehab Centers Next Generation Village (FL) IAFF Recovery Center (MD) Aftercare Next Step Village (FL) Resources Sobriety Calculator Friends and Family Teen Addiction LGBTQ+ Addiction Domestic Violence Pet Adoption Cancer Patients Veterans Elderly Lawyers Treatment By State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Louisiana Kentucky Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Jersey New Hampshire New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Recovery Blog Insurance Contact Us Admissions  Search     Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away.   352.771.2700  close  What To Expect Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.    352.771.2700   Recovery Is Possible   Home   Cocaine Addiction   Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose?   Share Tweet +1 Share Shares 0 Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? Derived from the coca plant that grows in abundance in South America, cocaine is a highly addictive stimulant drug used recreationally across the globe. Cocaine, or the informal ‘coke’ or ‘blow,’ is characterized by its talc-like white powder, which is snorted or injected by users. Once put into the body, the drug acts on the brain’s pleasure centers to flood normal brain function with dopamine. Chasing and maintaining this euphoria puts cocaine users in peril of overdosing. Cocaine has always been considered a rich man’s drug due to its exorbitant street price. Its use is widespread, though, second only to alcohol when it comes to emergency hospital visits, exceeding 500,000 a year. Despite this, cocaine use and overdoses have mostly been on the decline in recent years. Many drug users cannot justify the return on investment of cost-per-high. Especially when other drugs such as opioids are so cheap and prevalent. Still, ever since opioid addiction and use in the United States has reached epidemic proportions, cocaine overdoses have begun to rise steadily once again. Users are more likely to mix the two, sometimes without even realizing it. In 2015 alone, some 7,000 overdose fatalities were attributed to cocaine, and the figures are expected to rise in correlation with opioid overdoses. Unlike some drugs, users can overdose on cocaine the first time they take it. With the threat of cocaine overdose always a possibility, here are the signs and symptoms to look out for when you or a loved one partakes in this deadly toxin. Speak to a Cocaine Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 What to expect when I call? Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7. Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose In many circumstances, symptoms of a cocaine overdose mirror the effects of the drug itself. For example, cocaine is known to produce an energizing high, and an overdose amplifies this energy to the extreme. This can cause irritability, anxiety, exhilaration, depression, paranoia and more. Beyond these mood and movement symptoms, cocaine overdoses can be recognized by chest pain, elevated heart rate, twitching and headaches. Unfortunately, many of these symptoms go unacknowledged because the euphoria creates a façade of safety. And, if the likelihood of overdoses weren’t reason enough to worry, symptoms can lead to the onset of more permanent damage. Heart attacks are always a concern, as are strokes, seizures and comas. Cocaine Overdose Signs On the outside looking in, there are several identifiable signs that a cocaine user is verging on becoming an overdose victim. Some of these signs include but are not limited to: High blood pressure High body temperature Confusion to the point of apparent psychosis Agitated movements and restlessness Teeth grinding and chattering Talkativeness Unremitting energy Cocaine overdoses have a devastating effect on the human heart and cardiovascular system. If any or all of the above signs are present, it is imperative that the individual seek emergency medical care as soon as possible. How Much Cocaine to Overdose? As a party drug, cocaine overdoses usually happen two ways: either the user ingests too much to begin with, or they use more and more to maintain their high. Therein lies the substances’ true danger. The high itself almost never lasts for more than an hour, so users are inclined to use it incrementally. This, mixed with the fact that users do not realize the amount they’ve put into their bodies already, is a recipe for disaster. Just how much cocaine does it take to overdose? Well, the answer is up for some debate. Method of ingestion — orally, nasally or intravenously — plays a factor, as does the purity of the cocaine and the tolerance of the individual themselves. What we do know is that injecting the drug requires the least amount to produce a fatal reaction, with as little as 20 mg. For perspective, most individual doses range between 10 and 150 mg each. Mixing cocaine with other substances, particularly heroin or alcohol, only exacerbates the prospect of a fatal overdose. This is a common practice that should be avoided at all costs. Cocaine Overdose Treatment With rapid response, cocaine overdoses can be reversed and the victim saved. Preemptive steps should be taken even before medical personnel arrive to give the person overdosing a fighting chance. To start, things like ice, wet towels and cool blankets can be used to lower the individual’s core body temperature and prevent excessive overheating. This cooling method will continue under medical supervision until treatment is no longer required, so beginning the process right away helps in the long run. Enough cannot be said about keeping the individual calm, too. The heart goes into overdrive during an overdose, so any mitigating efforts to lower heart rate are essential. Also, respiratory failure may occur due to the over-activeness of the cardiovascular system. Having the person overdosing focus on steady breathing is another must. How is Cocaine Overdose Treated? There is no special cocaine overdose antidote. Thus, medical intervention is reliant on treating the principal symptoms of the overdose. In a hospital setting, treatment often begins by giving the victim a sedative to lower their blood pressure and heart rate. Drugs such as benzodiazepines are used to accomplish this. Administering these medications also lessens the chance or heart attack or stroke. Following recovery, it is imperative that one avoids overdosing again in the long term. The immense stress an overdose puts on vital organs leaves them susceptible to future trauma and damage. Given cocaine’s highly addictive quality, often times this is easier said than done. Still, sometimes the best defense is preventative care. Seeking out the proper treatment efforts can put you or your family members on a path free of the fear of overdoses altogether. If you or a loved one is ready to break free from cocaine addiction and put overdose behind you, The Recovery Village is here to help. Our nationwide facilities provide high-quality, evidence-based care to those who need it most. Reach out today to take the first step toward healing. Intake coordinators are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to take your call. Cocaine Addiction Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects Withdrawal & Detox Cocaine Addiction Treatment & Rehab Have more questions about Cocaine abuse? Q. How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System? Q. How Harmful Is Cocaine to One’s Health? Q. How Do I Know If Someone Is On Cocaine? Q. Can You Mix Cocaine and Alcohol? Q. Does Cocaine Cause Anxiety? Read the most frequently asked questions See also Top 5 Risks of Cocaine Use and Abuse Cocaine Abuse Hotline How To Tell if Someone is High on Coke See more topics AI and Addiction Treatment: Using Social Networks for Recovery Support April 9, 2018  Search  Speak to a Cocaine Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 What to expect when I call? Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7. Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700  Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? How Would You Rate This Page? Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? was last modified: November 30th, 2017 by The Recovery Village Share Tweet +1 Share Shares 0 Latest Related Posts: Cocaine Treatment & Rehab Top 5 Risks of Cocaine Use and Abuse Cocaine Hotline Cocaine Withdrawal & Detox Cocaine Abuse: Side Effects, Signs and Symptoms Cocaine Addiction FAQ Cocaine Addiction Related Topics How Do I Know If Someone Is On Cocaine Ready to start?  We're here for you.  352.771.2700      The Recovery Village 633 Umatilla Blvd.  Umatilla , FL  32784  (352) 771-2700 US 47-2809995 | NAICS 623220 About Us About Staff Philosophy Newsletter Careers Get Started Admissions Insurance Locations Contact Us Legal Notice Of Privacy Practices Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy © echo date(Y);? The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.   Call our Toll-Free Hotline 24/7 352.771.2700     Your browser does not support iframes.  Insurance Calculator  Your browser does not support iframes.  Insurance Calculator                                       Menu   866-737-3570       About Us  |  Our Staff  |  Our Blog  |   866-737-3570       Our Programs  Our Facilities  Resources  Admissions       What Are the Chances of a Cocaine Overdose?   Home Cocaine Addiction What Are the Chances of an Overdose?    Cocaine is a powerful central nervous system stimulant that can often result in overdose, according to findings published by the U.S. National Library of Medicine . When the researchers interviewed hundreds of cocaine users, some in rehab and others not, they found that overdose experiences were “extremely common.”  Their findings also show that the route by which the cocaine is introduced has something to do with the likelihood of overdose as well. For instance, IV drug users reported more experiences with overdose than those individuals who smoke rock cocaine.  Overdose occurs when the amount of drugs in the body is too much for the body to withstand. Sometimes, overdose can result in death, and in other cases, it might not. There is, unfortunately, no way to tell what the outcome of an overdose will be in any given situation.   A Single Use of Cocaine Can Result in an Overdose  A young woman who had stopped using drugs several years before she suffered a devastating loss once chose to use drugs to alleviate some of her emotional pain, according to a report in the UK’s Hull Daily Mail . The young mother of a little girl died of a cocaine overdose having taken an amount that her partner didn’t see as excessive at the time, but the coroner explained that because she hadn’t consumed cocaine in so long, she would have had a decreased tolerance for it.  This is a danger for anyone who has suffered from addiction and found some success in managing the disease. When an individual is actively using a drug, such as cocaine, the body becomes accustomed to the influx of chemicals. As this happens, the individual must consume greater amount of the drug to achieve the same results. After a period of not using the drug, the body can return to a normal level of tolerance. If the individual injects, smokes or snorts an amount of cocaine that would be just enough to obtain a high before recovery, he or she may overload their heart and suffer a severe, or even fatal, overdose.   Cocaethylene: The Drug You May Not Know You’re Making  Mixing drugs together, or mixing drugs and alcohol, is never a good idea. However, individuals who partake in social drug abuse or who suffer from addiction to a drug are often not in a position to make sound choices. However, when mixing cocaine and alcohol, there is a specific risk.  Cocaethylene is a compound created by the human body when cocaine and alcohol mix in the liver. This substance intensifies the effects of the cocaine, making the mixture of cocaine and liquor appealing for someone addicted to cocaine; however, the effects of the compound greatly increase the risk of sudden death.   Rates of Cocaine Abuse and Emergency Room Visits  Each year, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration monitors drug- and alcohol-related visits to emergency departments and hospitals across the United States. For the year 2009, cocaine misuse and abuse accounted for almost half of the drug-related ER visits. Specifically, cocaine was a factor in more than 400,000 trips to the hospital.  Comparatively, heroin accounted for less than a quarter of hospital encounters. A few other facts about cocaine use and hospital visits are:   Using cocaine in hotter temperatures increases the risk of death from overdose, according to a report by Reuters .  The use of alcohol and cocaine together were responsible for the lion’s share of overall ER visits as a result of alcohol and any other drug.  Cocaine use had the highest rate of any other drug for ER visits.  Those ages 35 to 44 had the highest rate of cocaine-related ER visits.  More men than women visited emergency rooms for cocaine overdose.   How to Recognize a Cocaine Overdose  According the University of Arizona’s Methamphetamine and Other Illicit Drug Education program, there is no single set of symptoms for cocaine overdose that will apply to everyone. Some individuals may suffer from nausea or vomiting, while others may have an increased heart rate or problems breathing. Some others may suffer from both of these symptoms or have chest pain or tremors.  On a psychological level, the individual suffering from an overdose of cocaine might experience paranoia or they may become delirious. Panic and anxiety are also symptoms of a cocaine overdose.  The most important aspect to remember about a cocaine overdose is to err on the side of caution. If you or someone you know has ingested any amount of cocaine and you suspect that an overdose might occur, get help as quickly as possible. If you can’t safely transport the individual to an emergency department or urgent care facility, call the authorities so they can administer lifesaving help and transport them, if necessary, to a hospital.  Getting help for a cocaine addiction isn’t as difficult as it might seem. At Axis , we have the experience and desire to help you, or someone you love, overcome their struggles with this debilitating disease. Call us today, before the chances of a cocaine overdose become more likely for you or your family member.      Further Reading      Effects on the Circulatory System  Facts About Addiction  How Abuse Changes a Person’s Behavior  How Cocaine Makes It on the Streets  How Long Will Cocaine Stay in Your System?  Long Term Consequences  Ramifications on the Central Nervous System  Repercussions of a Psychological Addiction  Symptoms of a Physical Addiction  Types of Cutting Agents  What Are the Chances of an Overdose?  What to Expect From Withdrawal                         A strong foundation for sustainable sobriety    866-737-3570           Explore Axis   About Us  Our Staff  Testimonials  FAQ's  Contact Us     Axis Locations   Axis East  Axis West  Axis Pacific View     Axis Treatment   About Our Program  Drug Rehab  Alcohol Rehab  Heroin Rehab  Cocaine Rehab     Addiction Resources   Resources  Drug Addiction  Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment       Axis Home     Axis East  Axis West  Axis Pacific View       Facebook  Twitter  Google   ©2018 Axis Residential Treatment All Rights Reserved.    Home  Our Programs  Our Facilities  Blog  About Us  Resources  Admissions  Contact                                         Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 98.176.81.96) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 98.176.81.96) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: February 2, 2014   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            What provokes a cocaine overdose? Starting from dosage to overdose complications and signs of overdose, we review signs, symptoms, and prognosis for cocaine overdose. Stay with us and we invite you to ask your personal questions about cocaine overdose or risks of snorting cocaine at the end.  How does unintentional cocaine overdose happen?  Cocaine is a crystalline alkaloid obtained from the leaves of the coca plant. Because cocaine is highly addictive , cocaine is significantly more dangerous compared to other central nervous system stimulants (including the entire class of amphetamine drugs). So, when we talk about overdose, the best way to describe cocaine overdose is using the term “intoxication”, which manifest as immediate effects of too much cocaine in the system.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    Cocaine overdose – How much is too much?  Common doses of cocaine vary between 10-120 mg. The estimated minimal lethal dose of cocaine is 1.2 g, but individuals with hypersensitivity to cocaine have died from as little as 30 mg. Still, this is usually not the case with cocaine addicts, who develop a high tolerance to cocaine in the central nervous system. In fact, some cocaine addicts with considerable tolerance have reported that they can tolerate up to 5 g of cocaine daily.  Cocaine overdose complications  The biggest risk with most drug overdose is that people do not take as recommended. But that is not the case with cocaine. In fact, most cocaine deaths are accidental, usually because some of its effects increase risk of pre-existing health conditions, such as the elevated blood pressure. Additionally, repeated doses of cocaine administered to avoid the crash that often follows the initial intense euphoric effects put you at risk of overdose. Cocaine overdose also occurs when used in combination with other drugs such as a cocaine and alcohol mix .  The most common signs of cocaine OD include:   abdominal pain  agitation  cerebral hemorrhage  chills  convulsions  death from respiratory failure  delirium, unconsciousness  enhanced reflexes  hallucinations  headache  heart failure  hostility  irregular respiration  nausea  rise in body temperature  seizures  stroke  tachycardia  vomiting     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   Cocaine overdose prognosis The prognosis of cocaine overdose depends on many factors. Overdose from cocaine can be a very painful experience, among other things. And it takes time for the body to return to its stable condition after you OD. The body requires time to not only metabolize cocaine, but to normalize additional symptoms. For example, depression with suicidal ideation may develop in very heavy users. There is no officially approved specific antidote for cocaine overdose. Emergency treatment for cocaine overdose often consists of administering a benzodiazepine sedation agent, such as diazepam (Valium) to decrease the elevated heart rate and blood pressure. In order to treat hyperthermia the physical cooling method (ice, cold blankets, etc…) may be used. There are specific treatments developed for any further complications. Cocaine overdose death rate High doses of cocaine due to the effects on sodium channels can cause cardiac attack. Unlike other drugs, cocaine has certain qualities that make it cross the blood-brain barrier quickly, which can lead to brain shutdown. Statistics indicate that 100 people die per day from drug overdoses each day in USA. After marijuana, cocaine is the second most used illicit drug in USA and causes three times more death rates than any other illicit drug. In fact, nearly 500,000 cocaine users visit the ED due to cocaine overdose annually; over 7,000 of them are fatalities. Cocaine overdose amount questions Do you still have questions about cocaine OD? Please feel free to post your questionsin the comments section below. We will be happy to provide you with a personal and prompt response as soon as possible. Reference Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Unintentional Drug Poisoning in the US National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration: Cocaine Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration:The DAWN report  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      How much cocaine is too much?  March 12th, 2017      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      Can you die from taking cocaine?  June 7th, 2015      Cocaine  July 4th, 2016      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      How does crack work?  October 18th, 2012   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     Wesley Copp  Tuesday, February 4th, 2014   I know a lot of people think that really bad things could never happen to them, particularly a lethal accidental overdose. I lost my closest friend to an accidental overdose and I assure you, if it could happen to them, it could happen to you. My friend was young (26), fit (we went to the gym regularly) and as I later learned, a regular user of powder cocaine. 
Members of my friend's family, as well as myself, were unaware of the frequency of use that was occurring - people are very good at hiding these often secretive activities.
But on one seemingly normal Sunday afternoon my friend went into a violent seizure and slowly died in my arms, as family members called the Ambulance. Despite the efforts of medics who arrived a short time later, my friend had died from a cerebral hemorrhage caused by cocaine use, according to the Neurologist and the Coroner.
It is unbearable to watch someone close to you in a seizure lasting 15 minutes, with blood flowing out of their mouth and their eyes rolled back in their head while they convulse uncontrollably in your arms, each minute going by seeming longer.
I still have not come to terms with the unexpected and unnecessary death of my closest friend. The grief that follows for so many people that are affected by the loss of such a beautiful, vibrant, otherwise healthy person, is unbearable. 
So if you don't think it can happen to you and aren't worried about an accidental overdose, think again. Whether you are a regular user or a weekend warrior, consider the impact that an accidental and lethal overdose will have on your family and friends. Could your partner, your mother, your sister or your best friend's handle the grief they would be forced to endure. Stop using cocaine for them, if not for yourself.
Wes Copp     danni  Monday, September 22nd, 2014   I'm sorry for your loss, that's horrible. But the thing is I want to die. So I was just curious how much could do it ... hopefully it won't be so paniful, as for my family they'll be fine one less mouth feed     STEPHEN  Friday, September 26th, 2014   Hey Danni,

You don`t know the pain that they will feel and ``Life was given to you for a reason``!  
God gave you this gift, your body is fearfully and wonderfully  made.  He wants the best for you Danni, your life is important, OK, and he loves you, so work through this bro.  I lost a beautiful girlfriend earlier this year vacationing in Nicaragua and she overdosed on cocaine.  WE are bought with a price, our souls belong to God and its up to him to take us home in His time.  I`ll be praying for healing and peace during this time.  Love you man.  Yaweh Bless you.     jess  Wednesday, December 10th, 2014   So I dont use coke very often but I got a few extra bucks thanks to my second job and was crazy tired and the opportunity presented itself. I used to do alot of pills about a year ago but never uppers. In the past year ive prob done coke and only coke 5 times. I bought a g last night and did it all between 930 am and 330 today. Then the come down started sucking so I decided to buy another half. Alrhough I feel ok I dont want to od. That would be pretty shitty. So I guess my question is how much can I do before im at risk to od? I saw up in the article a g to 1.2 g. But is that at 1 time or throughout the day. Cause I shouldn't have a tolerance but ive prob done 1.2 gs since 930 am.     Cody  Thursday, December 18th, 2014   When doing cocaine is there a way to know when you've reached your limit? Any tell tale signs physically or mentally that warns you that your body cannot take any more or an overdose will occur?     Ivana @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 23rd, 2014   Hello Cody. Cocaine is a drug that varies greatly when it comes to purity. People usually decide how much cocaine they want to do and buy grams, and count the lines.     lucy rodgers  Tuesday, January 6th, 2015   i am so sorry for your loss. thats the only that keeps me from going over the absolute top is when i think of close friends and family and how unfair it would be to them if i ever left the earth too early. ive been really hitting danger zone a ton on coke recently and i feel fine when i take it and i know the come down. im up to multiple grams within super short periods of time. i dont want to overdose by mistake one time. does anyone know how one can accidntally overdose? i know my limits but i dont want to mess up real bad. i am currently in therapy and working unfortunately slowly on gettin help. prayers out to you and your friend's family and friends... thank u for sharing     barbarossi  Wednesday, January 7th, 2015   It depends on the purity of the drug. Most suppliers have mixed them and often the drug is only 20%-40& pure, however, if you know the dealers you can purchase higher quality cocaine.Though this will still vary rarely be pure as the growers and producers of the drug mix it as soon as it has been produced to increase profits.This happens many times and is eventually given to the end user. You can not guarantee what it has been mixed with but usually it will be mixed with glucose and teething powders that provide a a rush and numbing affect. So to get back to the overdose queries/awnsers it depends is they are talking about 1.2g of pure coke or mixed. I imagine pure as it would be impossible to say 1.2g of mixed as they cannot determine its purity. Therefore, to overdoes on your average street cocaine, 2-3g could cause an overdose. Or there could be a nasty additive that could make you brown bread!! Boom     Addiction Blog  Wednesday, January 14th, 2015   Hello Lucy. Accidental overdose can occur when you're mixing substances or when the coke is cut with something unexpected. I wish you continued improvements in therapy!  All the best to you, Lucy.     WES COPP  Monday, February 23rd, 2015   Yes there is no magic number that one can use as a measure of what is too much to cause death. After my friend died the coroner explained that normally the amount of cocaine found in the system of my friend would not cause death. But he advised that the additives in the drugs had recently been known to impact women more severely than men. 
Find a meeting or a trusted friend or professional to help you. It's not worth giving your friends and family the heart ache of having to cope with an accidental overdose death. 
WES COPP     lauren  Friday, April 10th, 2015   Herion, cocaine, crack, ALL drugs are work of the devil. The devil wants us dead. I'm not dead yet so the devil did not win. It won't win. I'm trying to pray for a better tomorrow because thoughts will consume you and eat you inside. So will heroin. I'm trying my best man. Addiction is no joke. Please don't mess around with this stuff if you know for a fact you cant handle what it spits back at you. That's how the devil works..it'll reward you NOW..but it looks for something in return later. But then again I don’t think anyone can handle what it spits back at you..people die over these drugs man..something that doesn’t have a heart beat people are DYING over. These terrible drugs don’t have a heart beat because they want yours. Im trying my hardest to get outta the web its gotten me in. This stuff will bring a GROWN MAN to his knees. KILL. PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM HEROIN AND COCAINE..because the devil is 100% alive     K oh kaine  Thursday, June 25th, 2015   Fully functioning hard seller and addict altho addict is for the light weights I slam and smoke up to and over 14 grams a day....if there was a way to overdose I would have iwhile taking a thumbnail sisze overflowing blast all the while calling them our death hits....been doing this with my crew and we live life as anyone would and injoy every aspect....of the way we can manipulat the feeling itself and the stages.....been thus rar over 20 years met thousands of people living the same way with families work responsibility family support dance recite blasting in bathrooms in you're car....I have never known anyone to die or any adverse reaction....it overdose death......text book propaganda. Don't get me wrong I have destroys lives but never have heard of death no matter the use I'm living proof and hi as fuck on coke you can't die or I'd shake you're head.....someone pease debatet me on this been selling and using Dore over 20 years very successful     Legalizepot  Saturday, July 11th, 2015   I hv used cocaine maybe once a year since I was 18-20 and back then I could put some away. I find nothing wrong as long as you don't shoot that's way more addictive, but this last Ko hoaine r whatever is crazy I know of two different ppl that od and died on slaming cocaine. Be careful     sweet pea  Wednesday, July 22nd, 2015   Im not sure how true that is about ODing but I went 11days non stop snorting cocaine and i didnt OD. I went threw $1250 worth of uncut coke, and Im still here. Maybe my drug tolerance is super high, idk. Maybe sum1 on here can help me understand.

Thanks 4 da help in advance     Jp_pimp  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   ahahaha I love coke and plan on stopping after this 8ball I have such a sad day     lucy  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   Hi,im not a addict,but i dont understand how i can take a gram in 3 hours and be ok?     wendy  Monday, August 3rd, 2015   I used to take huge amounts of cocaine on an almost daily basis, % grams a day was not uncommon, I have often read the snorting cocaine raises the heart rate and blood pressure I have a very good blood pressure monitor and have often tested my self while under the influence, My personal experience was that although my heart rate always increased ( sometimes alarmingly so) my blood pressure never increased one iota, as a matter of fact it frequently went down when I had a particularly high amount or the quality was particularly good, Can anyone explain this? Am I an anomaly or is the information that it increases the blood pressure incorrect?     Lt. Col. MP Chris  Wednesday, September 2nd, 2015   I have been in the military 28 years. And as an Military Policeman I have worked the drug suppression team on a number of those years. One think I have seen is soldiers trying to mainline and miss the vein. This can also lead to a certain death. Just stay away from it. Do what I tell my soldiers. If you must get screwed up because of to much stress. Go get a 6 pack of beer and sit down by the lake and relax. It works for me. and all of my troops.

Best Regards To All.     Alex  Wednesday, September 30th, 2015   Danni I'm exactly where you are. I've just found your post by chance. Out of vulnerability I'm feeling you. Maybe we can figure it out together? Hopefully I’m not too late danni. I feel you     Shaggy  Thursday, October 1st, 2015   Yo alex it's not too late for any of us buddy what's good?     Rob  Friday, October 16th, 2015   I am a 62 year old man in good health but i am beginning to experience vertigo symptoms and am inquiring about my cocaine consumption.  I started snorting cocaine at age 24 in 1977 and did more and more until 1988 when I stopped for 9 years and then stared again in 1997 at age 44 and did coke for 3 more years and stopped again in 2000.  i was clean until 2010 and in the last 5 1/2 years have been doing an eight ball a month.  i guesstimate i have snorted (only snorted never smoked or shot) 50 ounces in those 19 years; that equates to 1400 grams.
What are my health risks at this point?  i know the obvious ones like a heart attack or stroke but this vertigo has me freaked.  Thanks.     Ryan  Friday, November 27th, 2015   I understand that cocaine is cut in many different ways, but that being said I go to school in Texas and it is hard to find anything over 40-50%. That is just the way it is whether people realize it or not. If someone tells me they have 60%+ most of the time they are lying to your face. Now, my question is this... When buying cocaine through a dealer what can you look for in terms of quality because, if they cut it with something that your body isnt use to can that be the way people OD?     cathy  Monday, November 30th, 2015   my daughter over dose from coaine the 31th of last month the hardest thing i ever have been threw i dident even no she did that pray for my family please  thank you from cathy     Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 1st, 2015   Hello Cathy. I'm really sorry for what you and your daughter are going through... I hope everything ends fine...Your family is in my prayers!     T  Saturday, December 5th, 2015   I've done three grams of cocaine within one hour in one sitting, within my first few times of using. didn't feel the slightest overdosed. more so I felt intense.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, December 10th, 2015   Hi, T. If you get any worse, call 991 ASAP. Or, call the Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for an assessment of overdose risk.     Maggie  Wednesday, December 23rd, 2015   How fatal is injecting 2 g of cocaine? Ever heard of anyone who committed suicide using cocaine??     Darrel  Saturday, January 2nd, 2016   Hi I have a couple more questions for you about cocain overdose/fatalities. How long does it usually take to die from overdose, mins? Hours? Days?
Also how painful is it to die this way?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Sunday, January 10th, 2016   Hi, Darrel. Every person reacts differently to each drug. So, the fatal dosage varies from person to person.     joe  Monday, February 1st, 2016   I tested 10467 pg/mg and havent done cocaine im 7 months how is this possible?     A  Thursday, February 18th, 2016   I've been using coke for the last three months on and off w/o feeling headache or upset stomach or any of the symptoms listed above, however this time I purchased 5g and have been hitting 2-3 lines every hour or so now since 4am this morning and it is now 1:40pm and I started to feel nauseous and a minor headache so I stopped railing lines about 2 hours ago. So I guess my question is am I suffering from a minor OD and if so how could I flush the drugs out of my system faster to prevent it from getting worse?     lili  Monday, April 4th, 2016   what is the short term exposure of cocaine     Jamie  Sunday, April 17th, 2016   Hey guys. My girlfriend and I have been doing bliw for about 9 months off an on... When were on its an out a quarter ounce a week. So roughly an eight ball every third day. We're both the same age in our late 30s. We're in good shape an have good health. How long until serious health issues or damages should arise? Pls serious responses only pls     Josh  Monday, May 2nd, 2016   So my cousin just died from what we were told a cocaine overdose he was a heavy user and usually did about 9-14 grams a week of some pretty strong stuff he lived in chicago with his newly wife and addopted son i live in toledo ohio were our family is from he was found oddly here in toledo at a cemetery in his car soaked with a fishing pole no note or goodbye which is kinda odd why the theatrics if it was a suicide especially intentionally trying to overdose could be kinda difficult to plan not knowing how much it will actually take unless you had a mixture with it such as heroin oddly enough a week prior his wife opened a life insurance policy on him police will not release any information to anyone but his newly wife     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, May 11th, 2016   I'm really sorry for your loss, Josh...     devin  Sunday, May 15th, 2016   how does cocaine feel when you take a "safe" amount? have you ever took a line of cocaine?     Hombre  Saturday, May 21st, 2016   I am 53 years old and have done cocaine sporadically for many years. Today after having a few drinks I had a rush for cocsine and bought 2 grams... I am about to finish them... I started early yesterday around 8 so in all it has been already 22 hours... I feel dizzy, anxious, and starter shaking a bit... I do not want to throw the .5 gr That I still have... I am waiting to see if I can resist or not...'  I don't think I am close to OD but really feel super anxious!!!     Nick  Friday, June 10th, 2016   if you havent started doing coke, or any other hard drug, then don't. if you do, expect to do it more then once. withdraw aint no joke, and will start after the first time you use it. i used to think withdraw just made you physically sick. nope it is mostly mental at first, i never knew i could even feel that depressed before. think of it like this: in exchange for a huge emotional boost you have to go through the opposite for a longer period of time; and it just gets worse; plus tolerance goes up fast     Anne  Tuesday, June 28th, 2016   I shared a gram of cocaine with 2 other friends the other night over 3 hous so i must have gotten 0.3 g. It was my first time and we had been drinking. I had some high pulse and heart beating and couldn't slep a few hours later. Had small chestpains a couple Now i'm anxious that i'll get a seizure og cerebral hemorrhage. I told my doctor that i did a little with alcohol who checked my pulse and said i was fine. Still worried I will die suddenly though it has been over 3 days. How big is the risk that i'll die from the cocaine after 3 days?     Wise one  Thursday, July 14th, 2016   I used to do it allot in the old days  back when i was a teen I ain't gonna say don't do it because I would be a hypocrite not that i condone taking it butif someone is going to do it they will do it just take your time don't mix with other drugs or alcohol. Make sure you watch each other but it's expensive and you could get a simaler feeling of happiness if you spent your money at a theme park well hell it would save you the hassle of the comedown  the day after. But like I said be carefully and allways stick with friends     Joe  Saturday, July 23rd, 2016   All you people who say you can't overdose off cocaine are crazy. Either you've got bad stuff or Canada has stronger stuff than everyone else but a ball here will kill you if you do it to yourself. I've overdosed of two grams before     Steve  Friday, August 12th, 2016   Addiction is a very real thing. I started using coke about 3 years ago. At first it was just a bump here and there while drinking to keep me alert and not stupid drunk. Then I noticed I couldn't have a few drinks without having serious cravings, so I started buying .5's to get me through the night. The .5's turned into g's and lately I'll finish a g long before I want to and usually find some awful stuff at whatever bar I'm at. Now I've progressed to using 4-5 times a week. Quantities depend on how much cash I have. My gf works nights so that makes it easy for me to start after she leaves, usually around 7, use until 12 or 1, or whenever it's gone and try to get a few hours sleep before she gets home. I'm taking allergy pills constantly so I'm not stuffy around her because I don't want her to ask questions. I've become accustomed to going on 2-3 hours sleep each night and still functioning at work (3 jobs). No one has any clue. It's getting bad though. Last night I ran out and didn't have the high I wanted. I always use the same plate to sniff off so it had built up some residue. I spent an hour scraping that plate with a razor just to scrounge up a mediocre line. It was 1:30am and I was trying to figure out any way to find some but I had been drinking so no driving and I'm also broke as hell because I spent all my money on blow. Today, after 2 hours sleep last night I worked my normal 9-6 and then did a cash job (I'm a tradesperson) so I could get a g for tonight even though I swore all day that I wouldn't do any tonight so I could get some sleep. Now I'm high and reading a bunch of articles on how to get to sleep after this g. I'm an addict and I'm 32. I'm a bit overweight and my blood pressure is high-normal, at least that's what my doc said 2 months ago. My gf has big dreams for us that I share with her but I'm going to snort myself to death before we realize any of those dreams. I start college in 3 weeks for my final block of school and I'm terrified of cutting back to part time because I won't be able to afford blow. I owe $15k in taxes because they found out about my side jobs but I haven't paid them a cent. I'm in some big trouble, but, to hell with my problems, I'm high. It's so effing stupid. I've never told anyone this. No one. So I guess I'm just using this message board to vent. If you're reading this and have never done coke and you're thinking about trying it DON'T. Some people can just do a bit and stop, but there are many others like me. Oh, and don't forget about the comedown. I've had such severe depression and anxiety I have sat in the tub with a knife to my wrist on multiple occasions. The only reason I didn't go through with it is because I love my gf more than I love myself. She's bipolar and is coping well with me as support. If I were to ever go ahead with "it" I know she'd be right behind me. Thank you for your time.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, August 12th, 2016   Thanks for sharing, Steve. There's always a way to get your life back on track...     sandy  Saturday, August 20th, 2016   I need help i do coke even after i feel like i going to die. i had a overdose or near overdose were i was about to die ,  felt sad in pain anxiety and paranoid for couple hours more side effects but i made it so i thought it was just a bad come down after. my point is after that i started doing coke with more care. saving some lines for the end so when its all over i can do half a line or even less to keep to come down after coke to  beat me to hard. I have some pain meds from my cancer days 4mg hydromorphone pills little yellow buggers dont do much but will that help with my come down and slow my heart down?

also plz if anyone can tell me the difference between good coke and bad coke that would be really helpfull…. i started coke when i was younger for fun then got cancer so got healty and kicked cancers butt. i know im stupid… but i got back into drugs after doing heroine { black tar} and well after a while i had to quit it cause i didn’t get any were i was going. so i thought coke might help with the withdraws / Barly but its keeping me from laying down and crying like a you know what in pain from them. im on coke now so thats why i might not make much sence or smell very good but any body want to help me anything right now would help me from doing more coke…..i dont know how good of a idea it is to replace one drug with another to quit that first drug but i saw the coke withdraws are nothing if you put them up with Black tar PHEEM {heroine } so IF anyone even gets to this point in my stupid mini essay any help plz would be lovely.

i would also like to say i quit drugs before i know i can do it again. before i quit black tar H i went to hell for a month locked in my basement , well the first 2-3 weeks were hell after that it got better day by day…I just putting this out there so ill know that theres some hope in me… i have no one else to talk to about this. so i guess mostly im trying to tell myself by typing this that i can do it but any way with help you know of plz let me know>>>..im scared to go to the doctor to get anything for withdrawls.     patty  Wednesday, August 24th, 2016   My husband died of cocaine intoxication. It was actually the metabolite of cocaine
 The amt was 300 mg/ml. Was that alot? Thanks     Gerald  Tuesday, August 30th, 2016   Ive been up all night snorting cocain in small incumbents ( dont judge me ) buy my heart rate is boosted i have a minkr hesd ache and my voice is very weak. Just to say hello takes a lot i mean my voice is very soft. Are these symptoms of me staying up for over 23 hrs or am i having a cocain overdose?     Chiky  Sunday, September 25th, 2016   I smoke the devil Crack every day I still able to take care of my home my self and my family. . I most of the time smoke for free.. I smoke maybe one or two 20s daily.. something inside of me wants to stop because am get scared because of my heath or to die .. hoh do I stop this shit for good     Caroline  Monday, September 26th, 2016   A 2007 study by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction showed that the purity levels for street purchased cocaine was often under 5% and on average under 50% pure. So when there are 6000 people in the USA dying (2014) because of coke OD do they actually die of cocaine OD or of all the other crap that's in there? How is a cocaine OD identified as such?     Carolyn  Tuesday, October 4th, 2016   My daughter passed away from accidental drug overdose. She had less than 100 ug /kg of cocaine . And less than 100 ug/kg for opiates . I have toxology report to show this. It says I think from brain. This seems low to me .     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 7th, 2016   Hi Carolyn. I'm really sorry for your loss... I'd suggest that you speak with a coroner or another professional. I wish you peace in these hard times.     Oma  Wednesday, November 30th, 2016   Hello, if you take cocaine by injection , is it even more dangerous than snorting? Thanks     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, November 30th, 2016   Hi Oma. Both ways are dangerous. Cocaine is illegal and addictive drug.     Mrs lewis  Tuesday, December 6th, 2016   Friday i did some coke around 5 pm then did some more around 10 then a few hours later i went back and got more and all together i spent about 170 my comedown felt horrible im not sure how long comedowns last but on saturday night my heart was racing i couldnt sleep or eat i kept drinking water and using the bathroom i felt nauseated and i tried to make myself throw up but i still felt like crap then felt shortness of breath and my chest started to hurt i fianlly was able to get some rest but on sunday i still felt the same way and i been feeling very paranoid i went to the ER and they said my heart was find and everything looked good but i been having anxiety attacks and i still feel very paranoid and scared and i dont know what to do please help i need some positive advice please     Nova  Sunday, December 11th, 2016   It's perfectly normal, what you're feeling mrs lewis. Even after a single use even if you only did it once in your entire life your body will go through withdrawal. It will pass and you will get back to yourself. Just don't use it again! You can cause a serious addiction if you do it too much in a time frame. I had to learn how to space out my pain pills and frequently change them at my doctors office so that I do not become addicted to any one thing. Positive vibes doll. If you ever need anything then just say so! I'll watch this post to see if you reply!     Nova  Sunday, December 11th, 2016   Chiky, seek a rehab center! Immediately! There is no shame in wanting to cure your addiction and even more than that, it takes a strong individual to face their short comings or stop a vice that they have but it is possible and it can be better and you absolutely CAN live without it. Think of your family and what would happen if they lost you. You may have an addiction...like most people...you're human! But you can do something about it and I urge you to take they leap and go to rehab for your family and for yourself! Best regards, Nova.     AloneIn  Saturday, December 17th, 2016   I just wanna share what I'm going through right now, I'm an ex heroine addict been recovering n sober for more than 7 months now. 3 days ago a HUGE MAJOR HUGE fight with mother n siblings so I took off and traveled away carrying on me 20 grams of cocaine. I started using and up till now its been 48 hours n yet still using, iv done almost 10 grams the dose is not lasting more than 2 mins then severe depression hitting so bad wich brings me back to using....I sincerely feel I'm dying.  And the country I'm in right now has zero drugs tolerance so if rather die than contacting anyone.     Renee  Saturday, December 31st, 2016   My son had 1040ng/ml of cocaine in his system, along with oxycodone and alprozolam.  What does that amount equl to in grams?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, January 17th, 2017   Hi Renee. I used a converter that I found on the Internet, and the result was 0.00104 grams. Here's the calculator: http://www.endmemo.com/sconvert/g_lng_ml.php     Bryan  Monday, January 2nd, 2017   I was out drinking and ended up talking one line of coke on Saturday night around 8 will I die it is now 32 hours late.     Dazza  Monday, January 23rd, 2017   Well considering the purity of the cocaine that goes about it is very hard to od on.

On many ocassions recenty i have taken a cocktail of coke mdma and valium over like 3 day periods with no sleep, maybe a half oz 14g per sesh, its fairly common in my area.

The comedowns are really bad but a few vallium help it.     Cain  Friday, January 27th, 2017   I was a frequent user in my younger days. I couldn't stand waking up the next day with no sleep. The paranoia was hectic. I think the stress of having my door kicked down was my biggest fear. I can't believe how much I spent on this Devil Drug. It started when I was 14 years old. Was just selling it. I made so much money. Never touched it till i was 21.Then you know what happened next. I got hooked. From making about 150,000 a month to nothing. Lost the trust. Of my employer. I lost respect of myself. Well after one lost marriage and almost my second. Thank God my wife changed my ways. And God almighty. But I still find myself getting a little every 6 month. God I hate myself. I dont want to go back to my old day's. To everybody who's reading this. Stop before its to late.     Deanna  Friday, February 3rd, 2017   I need help as my friend has taking 6 big lines and she has put some in to 2 joints and she is only 17 and small and her weight is not good eather as she is only 6 stone so what dose that mean     Ronald  Tuesday, February 7th, 2017   Hey, if you seriously want to get better and off the hard shit, i highly suggest you give ayahuasca and/or Iboga some serious consideration. It has saved my life and empowered me to make the first steps in a long time that I have taken towards becoming exactly the person I've always wanted to be. The person true to your heart. It can be a pretty full on and difficult process but if you can handle the pain that comes from addiction you can learn to handle letting it all go and seeing yourself grow, and then the purer the body and mind during this process, the better the experience becomes.  Do a little research yourselves but remember this, it's a two way street. You have to meet in the middle with the plant medicines. It won't give you the healing if you don't want it though with a short burst of motivation and will to see yourself heal whatever it is that keeps us locked up in these endless cycles of suffering, you can really accomplish a traumendous amount. Little by little, day by day of working with the plant medicines and the guidelines of your teacher throughout this process, you will find yourself flying with pure happiness as you are being relived of all of those blockage that keep you suppressed from who you really are. You can live without fears or anxiety for daily life. You can feel pure, happy, and content with yourself in any situation you happen to find yourself in, learning instinctually how to overcome the many obstacles that push us to be stressed, depressed, and for many of us, use. Ayahuasca is not addictive and it has no side effects of long or short term use. In the Peruvian Amazon, it has been used for at least 2 thousand years to aid in the relief of all manor of illnesses. It wasn't until recently (last 40-50 years) when they starting having the patients drink the medicine. Before it was only the shamans who drank and did the healing work. This was has been known to simply be because It was only a shaman who could heal another and not themselves yet what many have found is that this keeps people from maintaining their quality of life without the help of the shaman. For this reason I highly suggest for anyone with a problem with addiction to make their way to a place where you can take ayahuasca and learn to heal yourself, only with the guidance and support of the shaman who can hold the proper space for you to do the work you are willing to do for the sake of your life and simply clarity of mind.     I'm scared...  Thursday, February 9th, 2017   I have never used drugs in my life. I split up with my wife of 17 years almost 2 years ago. Getting involved in the dating scene again has been fun yet terrifying at the same time. I dated a girl last summer who seemed fun at first but after a long night of drinking and hard time finding a cab a guy offered us a ride and sold us some crack and speed. We did it all that night and went out for more crack since that is all we could find. A day later my come down was horrible. I was paranoid and thought the world hated me. I spoke with a trusted friend who told me it was the speed that was doing it to me. Needless to say I don't think I would ever do it again.
Now... I have been dating an incredible woman for the last 5 months. After a couple months of dating she asked if I had ever snorted coke. I had not, but I told her about my experience last summer. She convinced me to give it a try. I was able to find a supplier that I personally know that I knew was a dealer in the past. Turns out he still is. He sold me a gram that my girlfriend and I shared over a weekend. It was an amazing experience with no come down that I noticed. We started doing it every weekend together. A few weeks ago I bought a gram and did a line on my own. I felt horrible and told my girlfriend I was afraid I was becoming addicted rather than just a recreational user. We made the decision to only do it every 2 week (pay day). We missed last Friday's pay day purchase because we were in Mexico last week. I wanted to buy some in Playa Del Carmen but my girlfriend didn't trust the street dealers. We got home this Monday morning and I texted my dealer right away but he was too busy to get me any. 
I ended up seeing my dealer today and bought 1 1/2 grams. 4 of us were there and shared my 1/2 gram and I was gonna save the 1 gram for myself and my girlfriend when I see her tomorrow. The stuff I got my dealer told me was not the same stuff I normally get. Actually it is MUCH better. I got to my place and decided to mix the 2 half baggies into 1 and left a little on the table do do a line by myself. My high was and is still extremely intense. I opened up my work laptop and did some emails and work like I have never done before. I impressed the heck out of myself with my own productivity. I have now gone through the entire gram but still have 2 lines left...1 now. I started wondering how much coke it takes to overdose and found this blog. I read many posts and am getting seriously concerned. I do not feel like I am going to overdose... I am under the 1.2 gram "minimum" that has been mentioned. I feel fine... might be a bit paranoid though since I am trying to research overdosing.
I am freaking out that I am becoming addicted. As it is I have already texted my dealer and told him I need another gram because I have snorted all the stuff I bought today. My girlfriend is expecting some tomorrow.
How do I stop this? It seems that waiting the 2 weeks between purchases is killing me. I wanted it so bad in Mexico but was able to control my desire for it with the help of my girlfriend.
Money is not really an issue right now but it's very expensive and I feel at this rate I will be dipping into my savings to support this nasty habit if I continue doing it on my own.
I have only been doing coke for about 3 months now and have probably spent close to $1500 on it. That's a trip to Mexico again!!! I am working with a realtor to buy a house and don't want to f$%k my life up over an addiction that less than a year ago never thought would happen to me.
I never wanted to do coke by myself and have now finished an entire gram by myself tonight over the last 6 hours... not to mention the 4 lines I did with my dealer an hour before I started on my own.
I'm freaking out... I'm Scared... I don't want to tell my girlfriend as she does not have an addictive personality and may not understand my problem. Although she is the one who introduced me to this amazing yet absolutely horrible drug I do not blame her at all. I have been extremely open to trying everything in life that I have never experienced and would have gotten around to it soon enough I'm sure.
I have an excellent job that I enjoy and earn enough money to live life and have fun (although I have never budgeted for an additional $500 per month for drug usage). I see people on the street who have been affected by addiction to the extreme. I do not want to ever be there.
Yet I watch movies like Wolf of Wall Street that glorify the usage of drugs and it makes me feel justified in my own usage. They were successful right? I don't have unlimited money like them, but I do have over $100,000 in my savings account for a down payment on a home. I am seriously freaking out that I am going to start using it. I need that money!
I don't remember if i mentioned it earlier in this way too long post, I apologize if I am repeating myself. I am a talker without being high. This drug seems to make me talk 100 times more... Off my point... I was trying to say I have only been a user for about 3 months. Is it that quick to get addicted? Should I seek professional help? I DO NOT want to continue this habit buy enjoy it so much. Last line is now done... It's 1am and I am alert and feel like I can stay awake all night, although no more coke so I guess I will see what a crash after a gram feels like in half an hour or so.
I don't want to see my doctor about my own addiction problem. He already looks down on me since he was my ex's doctor (she doesn't see him anymore), because I have seen him about my promiscuous behaviors since being single and he has sent me for std testing twice in the last year and a half. I guess he thinks I should be celibate? He just shakes his head at me. I dunno... He seemed happier my last visit when I told him I am exclusively seeing one person. I despise my doctor but it's tough to find a doctor that will accept new patients. Well, I know I'm rambling on and on... I doubt anyone will read this nonsense, but if you have read all I have said (typed), Thank You. I am scared out of my mind about becoming a junkie and possibly messing my life up to the point where I am jobless and homeless, but also don't want to disappoint my girlfriend by not doing this "recreationally" with her every couple weeks. How do I do one without the other? I will hate myself tomorrow for snorting all this stuff. I should never have bought it the day before I meet up with my girlfriend. I feel terrible. I want to tell her what I did. I hate secrets, that is what killed my marriage (I was a closet smoker with my ex-wife as she hated smoking, but my addictive personality wouldn't let me stop since we both smoked early in the marriage. I hated hiding it and lying) and I promised myself I would be me after my marriage. I do not  want to keep secrets from my girlfriend but I am scared that she will see me as week and kick me to the curb. I know 5 months is not long for a relationship but I love this woman and don't want to f&%k it up by keeping secrets about doing drugs alone... especially since I told her the last time I did it and told her I hated myself for doing it. And that was only 1 line!!! I have just inhaled an entire gram!!! I know she would want me to tell her, I'm just scared... I'm a weak man (that is hard to admit). I have a feeling she will understand and try to help me but this will prove to her I am weak. I don't think she sees me as being that way right now.
What do I do?!?!?! Please do not comment about finding God. I am an Atheist and will not join any type of AA style groups that promote finding God to help them. I just am curious if anyone else has pulled out of a short-term drug habit and made it out, and really did just use recreationally after that without the urge to do more. I do not feel bad doing coke at all when I am with my girlfriend or with my dealer. I have not told any of my friends that I have been doing coke so I have not done any with them... Actually I don't even know if some of my friends do it. Are most coke users closet users or are people fairly open about drug usage? Great!!! Now I'm keeping secrets from friends! Paranoid? I don't feel it but it sure looks like I'm typing that way.
I am gonna end here because I think I could keep going for hours and hours.
Summary. I hate myself for using coke by alone... I do want to continue using recreationally. 
Possible? 
Almost 2am now. Time to see if sleep is possible.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, March 3rd, 2017   Hi I’m scared… Don't be scared... I suggest that you call the Cocaine Helpline listed here on 1-888-497-6879 to get in touch with dependable hotline professionals available 24/7. You will be talking to someone knowledgeable about cocaine abuse, rehab and recovery centers who can help you find a cocaine recovery program.     Joyce  Sunday, February 19th, 2017   My 32 year old beautiful daughter died October 25, 2016. I just found out that it was from acute cocaine and alcohol toxicity as it took several weeks for her toxicology report from the state. For those of you using, go get help.....you still have a chance, my daughter doesn't. Her senseless death has broken many people whose lives will never be the same.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, February 22nd, 2017   Hi Joyce. I'm really sorry for your loss... I wish you peace in these hard times, and I hope that your message will help those in need...     MamL  Saturday, March 11th, 2017   My beautiful, clever, handsome son died 4 years ago from a cocaine overdose. He had a secret habit. Myself and his live in partner had no idea what he was up to. He had a good job, good circle of fiends and supportive family. What made him get addicted to this vile, destructive drug is beyond me.  I haven't been able to be honest with people about the reason for his death as I don't want people to think less of him, or even that he deserved to die. If this got out it would kill his grandparents and brother. If anyone is reading this and is struggling with drug addiction please please please I beg you get help.... if not for yourself but for the people in your life that love you. My son's death has destroyed our lives, it has taken away our hopes our dreams and we will now have to live out the rest of our days with the regret that our beautiful boy died at 30 years of age. PLEASE GET HELP.... PLEASE DON'T THINK YOU CAN CONTROL THIS INSIDIOUS DRUG AND PLEASE FIND A WAY TO STOP.BEFORE YOU DESTROY YOURSELF AND YOUR FAMILY. I hope my sons death and my post helps someone out there to find a way to kick this habit before it kills them. My son took 1g of cocaine.he went into respiratory failure, his lungs were full of fluid, so in effect he drowned. He died alone on a bathroom floor. If this post sounds harsh, I don't apologise. I want you to think about my words and get help to stop taking this filth. Thank you for reading this post from an utterly devastated mother who is living a a life of sorrow and regret.... a life sentence of misery.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, March 13th, 2017   Hi Mam L. I'm really sorry for your loss... Your son is in a better place now... Hope your message will help others to seek help for cocaine addiction ASAP!     Jordan  Friday, March 17th, 2017   I just wanted to send a personal thank you to wesley and mamL. Both of your stories were incredibly powerful. I currently am coming down from a high and I literally feel like I'm dying. My heart is beating incredibly irregular, my chest feels like it's going to explode. I sweat and then I'm freezing, I'm nauseas and twitching. I'm losing my mind and my mind is racing. I can't stop thinking about how death would affect all of my loved ones. This was my last visit with the devil. I just hope god keeps me alive right now to prove that. Too young to die and can't leave my 6 year old daughter without her father. Please lord let me live so I can be here for my family. I'm only 23. God bless and thanks again for expanding my perception and thoughts towards positivity.     Ronald  Saturday, March 18th, 2017   I use cocane every friday night im 33 usually its 1 gram or 2 at most last night i did 4grams and drank like a fish i have been up for 19 hrs slowly winding down about to go to bed in my experience i can only do as much as my nose will let me also you can only get so high then you have pretty much sniffed yourself sober and or dont want any more n go to bed.     I have 20 plus friend that sniff twice a week never more then 1 gram at a time and every one of us is fine. Yes its highly addictive but it gets old real quick.  I no a guy who had some realy good stuff and did .5 ounce in 24 to 30 hrs he is still fine we all are.    Over the years your nose starts to cave in.     Thanks for reading.     Dean  Sunday, April 2nd, 2017   I had 2 x 100mg lines, then I went out. I put the straw in the bag that had half a gram and meant to just have a 1/3. I snorted the whole half gram. I was ok for a bit, then got such a dry mouth I drank liters of water quickly, then I remembered you can die from drinking too much water on drugs. I got super nervous and didn't want to go to hospital because of police, when I got there I was going to leave but I stayed. They hooked me up to oxygen, heart monitor and iv drip. At one point I knew my name in my head but my speaking didn't work, at the worst point I had a fit or left my body and screamed, yet I had no control over the screaming it was involuntary and full of terror.  
I was only using prior to this a few times here and there 100mg to test quality, and even this small amount in a month I got bad depression, didn't shower or even notice I didn't. Stopped going to gym. I don't fear dying in my sleep etc but an OD on cocaine is full on terror, and not short. 
I don't know if I would of survived not going to hospital, and I feel bad taking up a bed because of my own stupidity.  It's easy to say but I will never touch cocaine again or give to people, it's not safe and the good feeling has an opposite feeling. It's the equivalent of jumping off a diving board into an empty pool, the jump was fun but it's not worth it.     MR. R  Tuesday, April 4th, 2017   what is the limited dose of cocaine for daily use?     Seedoubleyou  Tuesday, April 11th, 2017   Hi, I was hoping that someone can settle a dispute that I can not believe I even engaged in because its absolutely ridiculous. However, I would appreciate some feedback from outside sources. I have a female cousin who is 42 5'2, 105 lbs..4 years ago she was diagnosed with breast cancer, went through chemo and radiation, and had a single mastectomy. 1 1/2 years ago she had said her cancer came back,  she started dabbling in cocaine a year ago and drinking heavily saying she wasn't going through chemo or radiation and she will let the cancer kill her before she goes through being sick.
Now this this brings me to my dispute. Over the course of a year she was drinking and doing cocaine regularly in which she never did cocaine and was completely against it. One particular night she came to my moms, which is her Aunts house, went into the bedroom and my mom heard a big THUD...She went into the bedroom and my cousin was Latin face down incoherant. My mom called Ems and they came and they gave her Narcan. So, my cousin dealer who is a "friend" ( hardly a friend) said she did (3) 8 balls and took 5 xanax within 10 hr period...so is it possible that if she consumed that much in that period of time she would of been in bad shape long before she actually was? And the xanax only brought her heart rate waaay down after all that coke consumption? For me I just find it hard to believe that a woman who is not a " true" addict per say with a low tolerance  that she could not have been able to do half of that in that period of time that she did. OK any thoughts?     Kirika  Thursday, April 13th, 2017   So.. Danni.. it's been 3 years, did you go through with it? If you tried and chickened out, can you at least let us know if cocaine OD experience was very unpleasant or if it seemed like a viable option? If you didn't give up, then obviously you're not around any more to respond to this so I'm happy you don't have to suffer any more and I wish I had your strength.     Wanting to Help  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   Hey I'M SCARED...how are you doing? I hope you made it through this , but my I guess is you are hard at it unfortunately... I understand. I have been there. Pretty much kicked the habit 7 years ago..BUT I am in Playa Del Carmen RIGHT NOW and bought a bit of decent coke a few days ago, enjoyed it, suffered the loss of sleep the last couple days, and was considering going out for more tonight, but decided to do some research, and found this blog. Not going out now! Sitting at the bar settling with Tequila and Beer! let me know if i can help. BTW, lost my ass 7 years ago, now have a great waterfront home, girlfriend, and just climbed to the top of Mt. Kilimanjaro in January! Let me know if I can help! I feel your situation. Did I mention I just turned 60?     nelson  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   Hey  I am scared. feel free to contact me. been there exactly. gotbit all taken care of :)     bboy  Monday, April 24th, 2017   i came here looking for how much i can do before risking an od and leaving with a bit more awareness on how dangerous this drug is. started using it a month or so ago. pulse up to 140 bpm after a 12 hour binge and 2g or so last fri, sat pretty much written off as a recovery day after no sleep, sunday not wanting to do it but finding myself thinking about it all day, like fuck i really want to do it right now, but i shouldn't damn it, but i can't even imagine doing anything without it, like it was calling me, come to me, come get me, come use me, it will be ok, you can have just a little, just a little bump, it will make it so much better, I'm that little bit that you like, that you love, that you need, it won't be the same without me, it won't be worth it without me, come taste me just a little, just a little won't hurt, but i didn't do it and now its the end of the day about to go to bed and have to get up early and work tomorrow and still want it and thinking about it     Mental  Wednesday, April 26th, 2017   In the last 36 hours I've taken 4.5 grams of the most potent cocaine flake I've ever had in the UK. I just kept on going as to not crumble and sleep all day as I had things that needed doing. I feel bodily drained but am scared to sleep as I also suffer from anxiety and am medicated for this also. I can't find anything online to say I shouldn't sleep but I've also not seem anybody else that have snorted this much to themselves in such short time. Please advise asap.     Brenda  Thursday, April 27th, 2017   A close friend admitted to me 3 hours ago he did a 8 ball of cocaine and was drinking vodka all night
His heart rate is 64 low considering he has high bp in the last 2 months he has lost weight. Helluinates he has Post pardon stress disorder and suicidal thoughts..what should I do ?? Please help     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, April 27th, 2017   Hi Brenda. Call 911 ASAP, or call the Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222 for an assessment of overdose risk or with help on what to do next.     Miss big  Monday, May 15th, 2017   How long after doing your last line of coke can and OD happen i it can happen as soon and u snort a line but how long after that last one gone do u have to worry about oding     James  Saturday, May 20th, 2017   I have on and off relationship with this drug. I just recently started using again its not stop me from living but I know its something I have to let go. What can I do to stop for good?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, May 22nd, 2017   Hi James. Call the Cocaine Helpline on 1-888-497-6879 to speak to a treatment support specialist about cocaine rehabilitation programs for you. Our helpline is open 24 hours a day.     Swim  Sunday, June 11th, 2017   Swim likes to do cocaine 1 or two times a week and always drinks with it.... Once he reaches a certain point(long before the people he is doing it with) his heart rate raises and he gets quiet and starts to REALLY NOT FEEL GOOD...  What does this mean and should he stop doing it all together?     Jo  Monday, June 12th, 2017   Why am i overdosing so easily i had 200 dollars 100 on two differents days an then i did 10 worth an felt like i was overdosing why am i overdosing so easily?     Feeling unwell but i hope that everything is okm  Wednesday, June 28th, 2017   I've broke up with my girlfriend literally. Month Gibbs u started to miss her loads and loads I spoke to her and I asked her. Question if she's slept with someone else while being apart and she told me the truth it's not what I wanted to hear but it is what it is... i suicidal i hardly do cocaine but today I just didn't wanna feel that pain anymore so throughout the night I've sniffed nearly 3.5!grams and have taken a few viagras in ain't gna have a wank or anything i took one before ages ago and frltnny heart rush a lot and I was hoping I'd die quickly... I love the life out of this girl and I can't be without her at all I'd rather just die she doesn't know I feel this kind of way or anything but it's just that I didn't like hearing that she's blocked me on everything and said it's best to stay away from her so I don't feel the pain but I do feel it and I'm gna feel that pain forna very long time I'm scared I won't be able to love someone as much as I loved her it's mad howbibrb feel bad right now ilmyneyes are bluriy and I feel cold as fuck I'm shivering but I'm fine I think will I be alright if I just try and go bed? I've read everyone's post on here and it's true I shouldn't kill myselfmbecahsenkfn of this I'm stirngerbbrhsn this but I'm notnstbthenssme time I feel really diZyb and sweaty I'm going to ring the ambulance after this but tsntime for everyone to wake up and I'm scared to ring anyone for help because if rbey find out inbeenndeeling this way everyone will be worried and I'd look stupid.. I do wish I do die to be fair though I've lost the most important person in my life she means eveeythingntknmennb Shen I don't know what to do? I'm from UK and feel mad like I'm superman but having trouble s breathing snlttlrnnj I'm trynand to sleep but unfit gets worse I'll get help I'll let you people know what Vuagraa and 3.5 of come Dodd I've sniffed a gram within a hour probably in like 3! Lines one after the other     Matt  Saturday, July 1st, 2017   I honestly feel like this post is meant to scare more than to teach about the drug. Of these listed signs of od headache , chills , rise in body temp , hostility , and enhanced reflex are (from my personal experience) are not necessarily signs of od. Ive done a lot of white girl and not just over time in total but in one day. While high ive almost always experienced enhanced reflex and sometimes a rise in body temp. A few times ive done to much in one go and gotten headaches but all i ever did was sit down and chill until it went away. Ive also gotten headaches from the come down and a couple times ive gotten chills while coming down from a large amount aswell as increased hostility. The most white girl ive ever done in a day was almost 3gs over the course of around 10-12 hours. When k finally hit the comedown i experienced a mild headache , chills and toward the end i became a bit more hostile (ive never experienced increased hostility for no reason so coming off its never just had me like a want to just go and start some shit) but only toward things that would normally get a flare from me anyway. So in my personal experience some lf these "signs of od" are just normal side effects from the use of this drug. If you want to do this drug and not have it take you over you gotta be grown and have will power. Learn what itll do to you when on it and how itll treat you when coming off it. If youre not strong enough to do it and have fun then deal with the shity side effects of use after dont even do it. Its already a waste of money as is even if you do control yourself and moderate and if you cant control and moderate yourself or deal with the comedown and all you want when you deal with that comedown is to do more so you dont feel that way anymore then youll just end up blowing most if not all your money and Fucking your life up and possibly actually od'ing from over use. At the end of the day if youre gonna do it be smart , learn about it , never just do anything handed to you Fucking check that shit first (fuckers will lace it with crazy ass Shit) moderate yourself ,     liv  Monday, August 14th, 2017   I've been using coke off and on for about 6 months. once i have the craving, nothing and no one can stop me from doing it. just had friends over for the last 2 days and I've done about 5.5 grams total in 6 days. 2 days ago i only did about .4 grams and didn't sleep for 40 hours because of work, which then i did more coke to make it through the day. tonight i did 1.2 grams by myself in about 6 hours. when i found this article i started freaking out but i scrolled down to the comments and feel less anxious about an overdose. I've done .8 g in one sitting before but never 1.2 g. I'm 125 pounds so i was worried that 1.2 grams would be too much for me, 19 years old and want to stop using it so much because its so expensive but i like it too much to fully commit. only one person could stop me if they knew but i don't have the heart to tell them. i don't know how much my body can handle and i don't know how to fully commit to quitting for good.     Jasper  Monday, August 28th, 2017   I have a friend who they said died of an cocaine overdoes .... how many anagrams of coke would have to be in his system to consider it a cocaine overdose??? He also had heroin, moriphene and other drugs in his system ....     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, August 30th, 2017   Hi Jasper. I'm really sorry for your loss... The anagrams are different for each individual. It depends from the drug dependency level that the person has. You may want to speak with a coroner or another expert about your concerns.     Dece  Tuesday, September 12th, 2017   How can you get cocaine in your system if you have never used this drug. Alot is going on in my life and this is one of those problems. I took 2 drug tests the same day a hair folical and a ua they both say 2 diffrent things. I dont know nothing about cocaine other than it comes from the coca plant. Now i have tobdeal with (cps) child protective services behind this and i dont have my beautifl children with me because of this. Im just asking for a little insight. I have never used this drug nor associate myself with people who does. I love my kids dearly and im trying to get them back.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, September 14th, 2017   Hi Dece. Did you take any medications that may cause false positive? Consult with a laboratory technician and a doctor who can help you find the reasons about false positive. Also, download our free e-book 'The Definitive Guide To Drug Testing' for more information: http://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/     Fred  Monday, October 9th, 2017   Know your limits and when to stop and you won't OD. If you're chasing the high and not getting it but becoming more paranoid, heart racing, sweating etc etc than your overdosing. Have some valium on hand or see a doc.     Sean  Monday, October 16th, 2017   Alright,  I picked up quite a bit, been doing it more and more. Started with about 2 lines a day. Now its progressed to telling myself "one more and thats it" all the time. I had to put It in my safe and give the key to a friend, thats how much I constantly wanted it. It turns highly addictive pretty quick but it needs to be done at the right times and in moderation. If you find yourself doing lines by yourself and doing nothing. you need to put it away like I have... It takes hold,   haven't had an appetite and I have noticeably lost some muscle from lack of eating. I hope this helps someone. Be careful everyone! And anybody depressed put there,  life is all we really got so do your best and enjoy life. There is so much out there besides drugs. Drugs are causing your depression and depression is causing your excessive drug use.  Its a vicious circle but you have to do everything you can to break it.     cokecowboy  Sunday, November 5th, 2017   anyone been in same place?
any advice  
coz  i think im getting a real  addiction for this stuff an could really do with some guidence ..  before   i ruin everything  or maybe even od  fataly     Kathleen  Wednesday, November 29th, 2017   My 24 daughter was found suddenly dead. We were unaware she took cocaine. Her flatmates did not check on Her for 46 hours. The bed was covered in blood. How would she have died and was it painful thankyou     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, November 29th, 2017   Hi Kathleen. I'm really sorry for your loss... I suggest that you consult with a coroner about your issues.     Simon  Tuesday, December 5th, 2017   There's a typo in the last section of this article, to the author who wrote this you wrote, "100 people day per die". What I think you meant to write, "100 people die per day".     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, December 11th, 2017   Hi Simon. Thank you for noticing the typo. We've corrected it. Have a great day.     Mathew  Thursday, December 7th, 2017   The first two weaks is important if you eant leac coke.
Dont drink alcohol or something else.
After 2 weeks you will save     Alan  Monday, December 11th, 2017   I started using cocaine in April of this year and it has intensified to where I just did 8.75g in 3 days, would this be considered an overdose and should I seek help?     Ev  Tuesday, March 6th, 2018   I just fund out my son overdose from cocaine I feel so loss and never knew he was on this drug.I just pray he wasn't in any pain or didn't suffer .This is the third overdose of drugs I hearing about close too me It's crushing     JAE  Tuesday, March 13th, 2018   There was a very traumatic car accident where a person survived but if you seen the car you would not believe that he did. We just seen his records  that they said he consumed a brick of cocaine in his system. But someone that worked up there explained that he was fine and did not have nothing in his system at the time of his accident . So my question is if he consumed a brick , thats like 1000 grams in one consumption  and was in this accident as he was he would not have survived alone because of the drugs. Or how does that work? Like what steps would we need to go thru to show that he does not do drugs in any fashion.     Vivian  Wednesday, March 14th, 2018   someone is dieing in a hospital what is the first thing they do. Could a hospital give a person that come in with Cocaine in their body Percocet and methadone at the same time and if a person is in the hospital for 3days this person should be clear from cocaine specially if they have IV on      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                              Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 173.31.140.150) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 173.31.140.150) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  Can you die from taking cocaine?      Can you die from taking cocaine?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: June 7, 2015   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            Yes, cocaine has triggered fatalities.  Cocaine is a powerfully addictive stimulant drug made from the leaves of the coca plant native to South America. It produces short-term euphoria, energy, and talkativeness, in addition to potentially dangerous physical effects like raising heart rate and blood pressure. But, what are the signs of cocaine overdose and how can you treat it? When do they become life threatening? We provide answers to these questions in the text below. Then, we invite your feedback or questions in the comments section at the end.  Dangers of cocaine ingredients  The danger of cocaine ingredients are far-ranging. They cause sudden death, acute medical and psychiatric illness. Physiological effects of cocaine include increased blood pressure and heart rate, dilated pupils, insomnia, and loss of appetite. The widespread abuse of highly pure street cocaine has led to many severe adverse health consequences related to cocaine overdose such as:   cardiac arrhythmias  convulsions  death ischemic heart conditions  sudden cardiac arrest  stroke   In some users, the long-term use of inhaled cocaine has led to a unique respiratory syndrome, and chronic snorting of cocaine has led to the erosion of the upper nasal cavity.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    Serious adverse side effects of cocaine  In general, medical complications of cocaine reflect the intense sympathomimetic activities of cocaine itself, also known as a ‘sympathetic neural storm’. Cardiovascular complications include arrhythmias and sudden death, acute myocardial infarction, myocarditis, dissecting aneurysm and bowel infarction. Neurological complications include seizure, intracerebral haemorrhage and brain injury due to hyperthermia and/or seizures, and headache. Psychiatric complications include acute anxiety or panic, as well as paranoid psychosis.  While the serious side effects of cocaine can be physical or psychological (affecting body and mind), other effects of cocaine include those to society. These can include:   criminal activity  infectious complications  reproductive disturbances  societal disruption (including child neglect, abuse and lost job productivity)  trauma   Signs of cocaine overdose  Fatal instances of cocaine overdose have been reported often due to the other major systemic effects of cocaine overdose (myocardial infarction, stroke, multiorgan failure). There is no specific therapy or antidote for acute cocaine toxicity. Experience of, and exposure to, overdose are not rare events. How much cocaine does it take to OD ? This you cannot predict. Cocaine users need to be aware of the possibility and nature of overdose, and that cocaine overdose can occur irrespective of method of use. In fact, there is a need to emphasize the potential danger of combining cocaine with other drugs and health officials are working to educate the public about these risks.    Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   How to treat cocaine overdose In cases of cocaine overdose, a health care provider will typically measure and monitor the patient’s vital signs, including temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure. Symptoms will then be addressed as appropriate. For example, a class of medications called benzodiazepines may be given to calm slow a rapid heart beat, and lower blood pressure, and treat anxiety and/or agitation. These medicines include diazepam and lorazepam. Further, fluids maybe be administered through a vein.  Heart, brain, muscle and kidney complications will be treated with additional medications. Long-term treatment to address the reason for cocaine overdose requires drug counseling in combination with medical therapy. FDA warnings about cocaine Presently, there are no FDA-approved medications that treat cocaine addiction. Consequently, NIDA is working aggressively to identify and test new medications to treat cocaine addiction safely and effectively . Several medications marketed for other diseases (e.g., vigabatrin, modafinil, tiagabine, disulfiram, and topiramate) show promise and have been reported to reduce cocaine use in controlled clinical trials. Among these, disulfiram (used to treat alcoholism) has produced the most consistent reductions in cocaine abuse. Are you taking too much cocaine? Help for cocaine use or misuse People addicted to cocaine might take bigger doses or take it more often to get high. A cocaine high usually doesn’t last very long. So people take it again and again to try to keep feeling good. 12-step support groups, such as Cocaine Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, have helped many people addicted to cocaine. Alternative groups such as SMART Recovery are also an option for those who do not like the 12-step approach. However, if you’re taking too much cocaine…it may be time to stop. Reach out for help by calling out hotline number. Questions about cocaine fatalities If you have any further questions about the danger of using cocaine, please share them in the comments section. We will do our best to provide you with a quick, personal answer. Reference sources: DEA: Drug of abuse LiverTox: Cocaine NCBI: Non-fatal cocaine overdose among injecting and non-injecting cocaine users in Sydney, Australia MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication NIH: Signs of Cocaine Abuse and Addiction NIH: What treatments are effective for cocaine abusers? MedlinePlus: Cocaine withdrawal NCBI: How toxic is cocaine? NIH: Cocaine  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?  February 2nd, 2014      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      How much cocaine is too much?  March 12th, 2017      Is cocaine addictive?  December 5th, 2012      How does crack work?  October 18th, 2012   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     regina  Saturday, August 1st, 2015   My friend is so strong out cocaine don't no what to do ..     Maggie  Wednesday, December 23rd, 2015   Is injecting 2 g of cocaine fatal (in a never-before drug abuser)? By how much percent?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, December 29th, 2015   Hi, Maggie. We are here to help you with an addiction problems, not to give fatal dosage (which is different for each human body). Please, reconsider what you are going to do, and think about everyone who cares and loves you. You're not alone!     Roderick  Thursday, October 13th, 2016   Hi
Injecting cocaine is something stupid and the perfect recipe to die.You can snort cocaine but not shot this crap in your body....     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 21st, 2016   Hi Roderick. It is possible to inject cocaine. Many users dissolve it into water and then inject it.     Megan  Tuesday, February 7th, 2017   I have a friend back home who did 3.5 of cocaine and passed. I do not know much about cocaine, and my other friend is saying he doesn't think it is enough to kill someone. Is it possible it was laced with something or taken with other drugs?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, March 8th, 2017   Hi Megan. I'm really sorry for your loss... The causes of death should be put in the toxicology report. So, if the cocaine was laced with something else or your friend has taken other drugs, then they would be written down in the report.     James  Saturday, April 22nd, 2017   How can you get help and for free after work hours like 6:00 CT     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Monday, April 24th, 2017   Hi James. Call the number you see on the website to get in touch with a trusted treatment consultant. The helpline is free, confidential, and available 24/7.     Sarah  Monday, July 17th, 2017   What are the effects on the body when u use small amounts over a long period of time?     Danielle  Thursday, October 26th, 2017   I am engaged and i just found out my Fiance has used cocaine i dont where he gets it we dont live together he claims he spent $20 dollars on it. And back in 2012 he used it and snorted it that time and this time both times gave him a sinus infection but both these times he told me he got a cold from me now what do i do. Just a year or to ago i found put he had been lying to me about his past. So i been with him for 7 years i love him so much. Not to mention i have same problems with my family only not cocaine related pills related help me. Im scared and i dont want know one to know     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, November 9th, 2017   Hi Danielle. I suggest that you look into the CRAFT model for families and interventions. One NGO called Allies in Recovery has some online reading that can help: http://alliesinrecovery.net/about-craft/     David  Thursday, February 8th, 2018   Are you serious 2 grams.  You would die absolutely.
That’s way to much.  I was addicted to needles for 4 years heroin coke and meth and am now clean for over a year.
I would never do over half a gram of coke and even that might scare me.  It’s not Advil you don’t need 3 to feel it.  This stuff is extremely effective in small doses.     F A  Sunday, February 25th, 2018   I am so broken hearted about my husband's sudden death.  He had returned to cocaine use after more than a year of being clean.  Before he died, he had again become paranoid, suspicious of our family, and selfish - claiming we weren't doing enough to demonstrate our love and appreciation of him..

I was very much still in love with him after 11 years.  I was living out tough love with him to encourage him to make a change but he wasn't listening yet and ran out of time.  If I hadn't started making good decisions I would have been not only devastated by the pain of lost love but crushed with being unprepared financially and in having a safety net to carry on.  

I've never used drugs so I continue to search for understanding.

My advice is to get out of such a relationship ASAP.  It will only lead to extreme loss and heartache.  Heal yourself.  You can't save someone until they are ready.  

Ironically, my deceased husband would often say, "once a person has made up there minds to hurt themselves, there's nothing you can do to stop them.     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, February 27th, 2018   Hi F A. I'm sorry for your loss...      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                              Get Addiction Help Now.   1-888-882-1456     Click to Call     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 107.77.85.130) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.       Homepage  Find Treatment   Treatment Q&A   Costs  Financing  Insurance  Interventions  Special Populations  Identifying Addiction    Rehab   Alcohol rehab  Drug rehab  The rehabilitation process  Rehab programs  Outpatient rehab  Inpatient rehab      Alcoholism    alcohol     Drugs    Cocaine    Crack    Ecstasy    Heroin    Marijuana    Meth    Molly    Morphine    Spice     Prescription Drugs    Adderall    Ambien    Ativan    Buprenorphine    Hydrocodone    Methadone    Morphine    Oxycodone    Oxycontin    Percocet    Ritalin    Suboxone    Tramadol    Ultram    Valium    Vicodin    Xanax     Addiction Blog Media   Videos  Infographics  eBooks                                    Drug Addiction     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.   1-888-882-1456     HOW OUR HELP LINE WORKS  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the AddictionBlog.org helpline is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options.  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit (IP: 107.77.85.130) will be answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) or a paid sponsor.     Sponsored Ad      Addiction  →  Drug  →  Cocaine  →  How much cocaine is too much?      How much cocaine is too much?      Addiction Blog  Addiction Blog  Published: March 12, 2017   Addiction Blog              640  320     Share            A cocaine overdose (OD) depends on a few factors:   purity levels of the drug  amounts used  an individual’s state of health state   While cocaine overdose is almost always unintentional, some suicidal attempts have been know to happen while on cocaine. Accidental overdoses can happen when you take cocaine with a greater purity, in large quantities, or after a period of abstinence. Also, a common unintentional cocaine overdose involves mixing cocaine with alcohol or with other drugs simultaneously.  But how can you know when you have crossed the line? Is there a way to find out how much cocaine is too much? Continue reading here to learn ore about the risks of taking too much cocaine. We’ll also review some basic information on how to prevent undesired consequences. Then, join us at the end and send us your questions and concerns. We will try to answer any legitimate questions personally and promptly.  Cocaine strengths  The strength of cocaine usually depends on purity levels. Purity can vary from 20% – 90%, with a recorded average of 28%.  The drug is first extracted in labs, distributed to smugglers, sold to distributors, then passed down to dealers. Along the way, cocaine is cut and diluted many times to maximize profits by adding weight with other substances. So, the cocaine you buy is only a small part pure drug, and the rest is made up of sugars or additives such as:   glucose  lactose and/ or mannitol  baking soda  corn starch  Vitamin C powde  talcum powder   …or related chemicals such as lidocaine or benzocaine.  You can check cocaine’s level of purity only by testing it in a lab or using specific protocols. For example, cocaine purity drug tests can be purchased online. Although they don’t provide results regarding the the adulterants used to cut the sample, they can provide crucial information about the strength of the drug, and help you prevent unintentional overdoses.     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad    How much cocaine is safe?  We feel obligated to warn you that in reality, no amount of cocaine is safe. Even if you don’t use too much and OD, cocaine can negatively impact your physical and mental health in many ways over time.  How much cocaine is safe to take and prevent an overdose? It is difficult to say how much cocaine is safe for you to use without OD-ing. It really depends on your level of tolerance to cocaine . Also, the intensity of cocaine’s effects are different among users. Another reason why the safe doses of cocaine can not be determined comes from the fact that cocaine is a highly unpredictable drug with unique multiple actions on the body.  Q: So, how much cocaine can you take at once?  A: Typical doses of cocaine are in the range from 30 mg and up to 70 mg. But as users develop tolerance they tend to use more and increase their doses and go up to 1 g.  How much cocaine to overdose?  How much cocaine amount of cocaine to overdose? Cocaine overdose can occur in several ways, not all involving the dose quantity, level of tolerance, and purity. Cocaine overdose can occur if you:   Take too much cocaine.  Use a concentrated form of cocaine.  Use cocaine in hot weather due to dehydration.  Mix cocaine with alcohol and other substances.   The consequences of a cocaine overdose include:   seizures  brain haemorrhage  kidney failure  heart attack  stroke     Get Help Today! Addiction Helpline Available 24/7.  1-888-882-1456  Sponsored Ad   How to know if I have gone too far with cocaine? Cocaine addicts might take lager doses of cocaine and use it more frequently to get high. However, these sought-after effects of cocaine are short lasting. The main reason why addicts take it repeatedly is because they want the pleasure to last. But, using to much cocaine nearly always results in addiction. Still, there are many ways to get help if you’ve gone too far. Here are some places to start: 12-step support groups , such as Cocaine Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, have helped many people addicted to cocaine.  Alternative group s such as SMART Recovery are also an option for those who do not like the 12-step approach.  Your doctor can help you quit at home, or recommend a detox clinic and a treatment center if s/he determines you require more intensive medical care.  SAMHSA’s Behavioral Health Treatment Services Locator can help you detect licensed detoxification, outpatient or inpatient treatment facilities in your area. Or, you can reach out for help by calling our 24-7 hotline number. Call 877-516-8929 and get connected with a compassionate operator who understands problems with cocaine. We’re here to help…day or night. How much cocaine is fatal? The estimated minimum dose of cocaine that is considered to be lethal is 1.2 g, but users with hypersensitivity to cocaine have died from as little as 30 mg. Some rare cases of cocaine addicts who have a considerable tolerance, reported use of up to 5 g of cocaine daily. However, this would be an extremely fatal dose for most individuals. How much cocaine should I take? Given the fact that cocaine is a highly addictive and dangerous illicit drug, there are is no safe dose that is recommended for your use. When taken in high doses cocaine causes extreme agitation, paranoia and aggression. The unpleasant physical effects from a high dose of cocaine usually include:  dizziness  hallucinations  headache  heart pain  nausea  tremors  vomiting  Cocaine is also known as a drug which caused many deaths even after the first use. Moreover, it’s unpredictable purity levels can make it a very dangerous drug. Questions about too much cocaine Do you still have questions about the safe levels of cocaine? Please leave your questions in the designated section below. We do our best to respond to your inquiries with a personal and prompt response. Reference sources: VIC: Cocaine  Related Articles     How does cocaine work?  May 12th, 2012      Snorting cocaine  May 18th, 2012      Cocaine overdose: How much amount of cocaine to overdose?  February 2nd, 2014      What are cocaine withdrawal symptoms?  August 5th, 2013      Mixing cocaine with alcohol  April 28th, 2013      Tolerance to cocaine  July 30th, 2014      How long does cocaine stay in your system?  November 16th, 2011      Is cocaine addictive?  December 5th, 2012      Cocaine  July 4th, 2016   Leave a reply   Click here to cancel reply.                   I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .              Subscribe to this post  Subscribe to Addiction Blog updates     Zachary  Monday, March 13th, 2017   Hello! The article is quite informative and answers provided to the questions are helpful too.

 "Given the fact that cocaine is a highly addictive and dangerous illicit drug, there are is no safe dose that is recommended for your use" This is a very strong point made. Cocaine in any type of dose is indeed dangerous and very addictive.Second, it would be helpful if you add more details about physical effects of overdose of cocaine. 

Regards
Zachary     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Tuesday, March 21st, 2017   Hi Zachary. Thank you for your input. We had explained cocaine OD symptoms in another, older article. See here: http://drug.addictionblog.org/cocaine-overdose-how-much-amount-of-cocaine-to-overdose/     Simon  Tuesday, March 14th, 2017   The best amount of cocaine to take is none😀     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Thursday, March 16th, 2017   Yes, Simon :) We totally agree with you!     SLO  Thursday, March 16th, 2017   This post is very very useful. People basically young generation are getting addict, and the number is increasing at dangerous rate. So this type of articles are always welcome  to stand against drug addiction.     Pete  Tuesday, July 25th, 2017   I take a half of a $20 of cocaine everyday during my work hours and save the other half for next day,If that to much?     Brad  Thursday, October 12th, 2017   I've smoked about 4 grams throughout 7 days. I'm 6 feet tall 180 pounds and I metabolize things fast. Is that enough use to make the drug linger in my urine longer?     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Friday, October 20th, 2017   Hi Brad. Cocaine can be detected 2-4 days after the last intake. However, this detection period is longer for long-term and/or binge users. If you want to learn more about drug testing, download our e-book here: http://addictionblog.org/ebooks/the-definitive-guide-to-drug-testing/     Natalie  Friday, January 12th, 2018   My Husband passed away from fatal cocaine toxicity and I feel like I need to know how as he hadn’t taken any for a while. Would he of known he had taken too much.
Please help a grieving wife     Lydia @ Addiction Blog  Wednesday, January 17th, 2018   Hi Natalie. I'm really sorry for your loss... I suggest that you consult with a coroner or a toxicologist about your issue.     Kiki  Monday, March 26th, 2018   Hi!!! I'm 17 years old and have taken cocaine 4 days in a. Now and was wondering de4ing if I could be addicted or close to overdose?      Back to top     Home  Alcohol  Drugs  Prescription Drugs  Gambling  Internet  Sex     Search  Terms  Contact  Sitemap              Copyright ©2018 AddictionBlog.org    This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.                        Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Beachway Therapy Center   2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info           Ocean Breeze Recovery   2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info           Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown   49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Beachway Therapy Center    2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info       Ocean Breeze Recovery    2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info       Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown    49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Beachway Therapy Center   2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info           Ocean Breeze Recovery   2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info           Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown   49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Beachway Therapy Center    2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info       Ocean Breeze Recovery    2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info       Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown    49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Beachway Therapy Center   2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info           Ocean Breeze Recovery   2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info           Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown   49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Beachway Therapy Center    2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info       Ocean Breeze Recovery    2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info       Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown    49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Call Now  1-888-744-0789  100% Private      Enter a Private Luxury Treatment Center Within 24 Hours    Click to Call  1-888-744-0789          Toggle navigation          Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789      Addiction    Rehab    Education    Get Help Today    Call 24/7 for treatment options. (Who Answers?)    1-888-744-0789                   Home  Finding a Luxury Inpatient Cocaine Rehab  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects   Find Fast  Cocaine Overdose Symptoms  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body  How Overdose Affects your Brain  Long-Term Effects of Cocaine Overdose  Finding Treatment for Addiction  Learn More and Find Help   Many cocaine users have a “nothing bad will happen to me” mentality.  The reality is that cocaine is one of the most dangerous drugs in the world because even a first-time user can overdose.  Second only to alcohol, cocaine accounts for the second most frequent reason for drug-related visits to emergency rooms across the U.S. 1  A person who snorts, smokes or injects too much cocaine can suffer from an overdose.  To live through a cocaine overdose, or otherwise survive a life-threatening cocaine-related health scare can be traumatizing, but can also serve as the motivation some users need to finally kick their cocaine habit.   Cocaine Overdose Symptoms   Many overdoses occur because individuals continue to use more cocaine despite the fact that the initial effects are still present – essentially stacking the deadly pharmacologic impact on their cardiovascular and other organ systems. Others may place themselves at risk of overdose because they attempt to use an extremely large amount once their initial high has subsided. The euphoric effects of cocaine are very short-lived – lasting around 30 minutes, or possibly up to one hour with intranasal use. 2 As users chase after more of that euphoric feeling they felt at the beginning, they often don’t realize just how much of the drug they have taken. A cocaine overdose requires immediate medical attention because it can be deadly. Common symptoms that indicate a person has used an excessive amount of cocaine include:   Frenetic levels of energy.  Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia.  Extreme mood changes: feelings of exhilaration and depression.  Aggressive behavior.  Panic attacks, paranoia.  Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain.     Talking excessively.  Increased heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature.  Chest pain.  Dizziness and/or fainting.  Headaches, seizures, coma.  Twitches or tremors in the arms and legs. 3,4   How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Body Cocaine effects arise from the drug’s interaction on a wide range of bodily processes. Cocaine’s immediate physical harm – and eventually its deadly impact – can originate from a number of affected organ systems throughout the body. Heart Problems A cocaine overdose has a massive effect on the heart. The user may have severe chest pain or chest pressure as the coronary arteries that feed blood to the heart constrict. 5 At this point, the heart is being starved of blood and oxygen. As the heart is in a crisis state, it begins to work excessively hard – which can ultimately lead to a stroke or a heart attack, even if the person is healthy. The blood pressure and heart rate will also dangerously spike during an overdose, which could also cause the heart to fail. 6 If the user has high blood pressure or heart problems without the use of stimulants, the risk of dying from a heart attack or stroke is much greater. Additionally, irregular heart rhythms can occur – also leading to possible death. Lung Problems Cocaine overdose can also result in acute bronchospasm as well as a number of other more serious lung problems – such as pneumothroax (collapse of the lung). Some users – particularly those injecting the drug – are also at increased risk of thrombus (blood clot) development in the lungs. 7 Problems in Other Body Organs Other organs that incur damage from cocaine overdose may also include: Intestines & kidneys: perforated ulcers, insufficient blood supply, metabolic acidosis (from too much acid production. 8 Muscle and bones: life-threatening metabolic imbalances can result. 9 The eyes: pupil dilation and resultant changes in visual acuity, retinal vessel spasms and/or microvascular infarcts that may lead to vision loss. 10 The brain and central nervous system: seizures, coma, headaches, intracranial bleeding. 9  How Cocaine Overdose Affects Your Brain and Central Nervous System As mentioned above, seizures and convulsions are common during a cocaine overdose, as the brain is acutely sensitive to toxic levels of the drug. As a more systemic cardiovascular consequence played out within the skull, blood vessels in the brain may rupture so the user may suffer a lethal aneurysm or hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, dangerously heightened catecholamine neurotransmission results in a lot of nerve cell “miscommunication” – during which the user may experience uncontrollable muscle movements such as shaking, jaw grinding or teeth chattering. The legs and arms may feel shaky and weak. An increase in muscular activity can lead to a dangerously elevated body temperatures or high fever. Eventually, the overtaxed muscles may seize up – to the point where the user may not even be able to yell for help. If you can imagine watching your body go through these changes while feeling helpless that you can’t do anything to stop them, you will get a glimpse into the horrific way that survivors of cocaine overdose describe this experience. Long-Term Effects of a Cocaine Overdose  When individuals survive a cocaine overdose, both their physical and mental health may be affected forever. They may experience severe damage to major organs such as the heart, liver, lungs, brain and kidneys. Extensive damage can also occur to the intestines, to reproductive organs as well as to a developing fetus in pregnant women who use cocaine.  The mental trauma of a cocaine overdose can also change the way that the user thinks and feels even if they successfully quit using the drug. They may suffer psychosis, paranoia, panic attacks, tremors and delusions.  Finding Treatment for Your Addiction If you or someone you know struggles with an addiction to cocaine , it’s important that you get the information and the help that you need. And it’s better to reach out for help before an overdose occurs. If you have already survived this near-death experience, you have been blessed with a second chance. Take full advantage of it and learn more about how you can overcome your addiction. Treatment Center Types There are a few different types of addiction treatment centers that are available to help walk you through the rehabilitation process:  Luxury treatment centers offer residential addiction rehabilitation alongside high-end luxuries and resort-like amenities.  Executive treatment centers offer many of the same luxurious amenities found in luxury rehab treatment but also cater to busy professionals who need to maintain an active presence in their place of work.  Standard rehabilitation programs also offer high quality rehabilitation treatment – both on an inpatient and on an outpatient basis. While these programs do not come with the wide array of high-end amenities offered in luxury and executive treatment, they also cost less and prove to be a more affordable option for those on a budget.  Amenities matter!  Recovery Brands collected data in 2016 asking people that were leaving an addiction rehab center what clinic attributes they saw as valuable things to look for when examining programs. The highest-rated consideration was the center’s monetary policies, such as financial support, payment options, and insurance accepted. They also valued program offerings (comforts, quality of housing, room quality, etc.) a lot more after completing treatment. New patients will want to consider a facility’s financial practices as well as facility offerings to assist them in their final program decision. Read more  Not Sure About Your Next Steps? Are you overwhelmed or confused about where to go from here to get the help you need? Call us at 1-888-744-0789 . One of our recovery advisors can help answer any questions you may have and can put you on the path to recovery by connecting you with a rehabilitation program that suits your needs and budget. Learn about your options, and take control of your life. Sources  Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN).  Cone, E. J. (1995). Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cocaine.  J Anal Toxicol, 19 (6), 459.  Drug addiction. Mayo Clinic.  What are the short-term effects of cocaine use? National Institute on Drug Abuse.  Hollander, J. E., Hoffman, R. S., Gennis, P., Fairweather, P., DiSano, M. J., Schumb, D. A., et al. (1994). Prospective multicenter evaluation of cocaine-associated chest pain. Acad Emerg Med., 1 (4), 330.  Koppel, B. S., Samkoff, L., Daras, M. (1996). Relation of cocaine use to seizures and epilepsy.  Epilepsia, 37 (9), 875.  Kugelmass, A. D., Oda, A., Monahan, K., Cabral, C., Ware, J. A. (1993). Activation of human platelets by cocaine.  Circulation, 88 (3), 876.  Pecha, R. E., Prindiville, T., Pecha, B. S., Camp, R., Carroll, M., Trudeau, W. (1996). Association of cocaine and methamphetamine use with giant gastroduodenal ulcers . Am J. Gastroenterol., 91 (12), 2523.  Goldfrank, L. R., Flomenbaum, N. E., Hoffman, J. R., et al. (2006). Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies, 8th E. McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing Division.  Libman, R. B., Masters, S. R., de Paola, A., Mohr, J. P. (1993). Transient monocular blindness associated with cocaine abuse . Neurology, 43 (1), 228.    Explore Treatment Options Now     Beachway Therapy Center   2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info           Ocean Breeze Recovery   2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info           Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown   49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info           Further Reading     Choosing an Exclusive Cocaine Rehab Center      Cocaine Addiction and Private Coke Treatment      Cocaine Addiction Recovery Statistics      Cocaine Addiction Signs and Symptoms      Cocaine Overdose Symptoms and Effects      Cocaine Use and Heart Problems      Deviated Septum From Cocaine or Meth Use      Effects of Crack      FAQs About Luxury Cocaine Rehab      How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System?      Long-Term Effects of Cocaine      Medications for Cocaine Addiction      Mixing Cocaine With Alcohol, Heroin, and Other Drugs      Physical Effects of Cocaine      Shooting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Smoking Freebase Cocaine – Side Effects and Dangers      Snorting Cocaine: Side Effects and Dangers      Street Names and Nicknames for Cocaine      What Is Cocaine Cut With?      Why Is Cocaine Addictive?      Facts Speak Louder Than Words    Infographic Library     Explore Treatment Options Now      Beachway Therapy Center    2600 Quantum Blvd Boynton Beach, Florida 33426  More Info       Ocean Breeze Recovery    2413 E Atlantic Blvd Pompano Beach, Florida 33062  More Info       Clinical Services of Rhode Island, South Kingstown    49 South County Commons Way, Unit F6 South Kingstown, Rhode Island 02879  More Info        Featured States     Arizona    California    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Indiana    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Missouri     Top Cities     New York    Los Angeles    Chicago    Dallas    Houston            1-888-744-0789   (Who Answers?)    Email Us    Copyright © Rehabs.com 2018  Luxury.Rehabs.com is a property of Sober Media Group     Education Resources     Family Support Guide    Rehab Payment    Support Organizations    Drug Policy       General Info     Home    Blog    Infographics    Contact Us    Privacy    Terms and Conditions       About Rehabs.com   Rehabs.com is a comprehensive guide for the entire treatment process - from spotting issues to find and enrolling into rehabillation. Yet it’s more than that; it’s also an extensive educational resource that includes up to date statistics, policy and regulation information as well as a section on careers in the industry. If that’s not enough, this site also cover a list of hot button issues that can be found on the blog and in the infographics library.     How Our Help Line Works  For those seeking addiction treatment for themselves or a loved one, the Rehabs.com help line is a private and convenient solution. These centers, that pay to be help line supporters, have caring advisors standing by 24/7 to discuss your treatment options. If you wish to connect with non-sponsor centers, you can browse top-rated listings , visit our homepage and browse by state, or visit SAMHSA .  Calls to any general helpline (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) for your visit will be answered between 5am and 9pm (PT) by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.                     Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Snorting - chance of overdosing when using coke for the first time  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by adamwebb12 , May 30, 2011 .            2 / 5 ,        chance of overdosing when using coke for the first time   2  5   1 votes  1 vote          May 30, 2011    #1             adamwebb12  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  28     Joined:  May 21, 2011    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from sweden           hi I was wondering whether there are any chances of overdosing when snorting  cocaine for the first time..any is it easy to handle coke ?you don't trip do you?                       May 30, 2011    #2             shroooom  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   114      Messages:  160     Joined:  Nov 19, 2009    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from england           You will be fine if he just has a few lines for the night.  It's a stimulant  drug , so it's not really going to make You trip out (unless he takes loads and OD).   Coke is pretty easy to handle. Over here, coke is never pure unless You pays a high price. SWIM steers clear of coke . High price + short addictive high = not a great deal in his opinion.                       May 30, 2011    #3             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.           Has adamwebb12 used any other substances? No, you don't trip at all, it would be difficult to compare it to anything unless we know what you've taken before.  There is a cocaine  FAQ at the top of this message board, check it out. I'd say coke 's effects are euphoria , energy, increased confidence, increased sociability/talkativeness.  To be safe stick to just a few small lines your first time. Don't go line for line with your friends if they are experienced users.                       Jun 1, 2011    #4             adamwebb12  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  28     Joined:  May 21, 2011    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from sweden              EscapeDummy said: ↑   Has adamwebb12 used any other substances? No, you don't trip at all, it would be difficult to compare it to anything unless we know what you've taken before.  There is a cocaine  FAQ at the top of this message board, check it out. I'd say coke 's effects are euphoria , energy, increased confidence, increased sociability/talkativeness.  To be safe stick to just a few small lines your first time. Don't go line for line with your friends if they are experienced users. Click to expand...   Yes iv done weed,hash, opium , benzos and a few other downers..iv never done an upper in my life..is it ok if i go and chill with my female friends after i do a line or 2..they won't be able to tell that i'm on coke will they?                       Jun 1, 2011    #5             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.           Depends on the person. If you guys are drinking it probably isn't too likely that they can tell. However some people really act different when on coke , it depends on the person. And yeah, its a sensation totally different than any downer, none of those hvae similar effects.      Last edited: Jun 5, 2011                    Jun 1, 2011    #6             Herbal Healer 019  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   529      Messages:  1,126     Joined:  Sep 24, 2008    from france           People will be able to tell your on an upper for sure. Assuming its good coke .  The first time I did coke he was already drunk and everyone else @ the party he was at was drunk or high on weed and most of them immediately knew I was on coke even though he thought he was all slick with playing it off.  I wouldnt worry about ODing either; if you're just snorting it (as opposed to shooting it) I would find it highly unlikely that you'd overdose (assuming you dont go nuts and do tons)                       Jun 5, 2011    #7             EscapeDummy  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,718      Messages:  1,791     Joined:  Apr 15, 2009    from U.S.A.              Herbal Healer 019 said: ↑   People will be able to tell your on an upper for sure. Assuming its good coke .  The first time I did coke he was already drunk and everyone else @ the party he was at was drunk or high on weed and most of them immediately knew I was on coke even though he thought he was all slick with playing it off.  I wouldnt worry about ODing either; if you're just snorting it (as opposed to shooting it) I would find it highly unlikely that you'd overdose (assuming you dont go nuts and do tons) Click to expand...   I think it really does depend on the person. I tend to "show" drugs a lot more than other people, but I'm already a chatterbox energetic, and chain smoke at parties while drunk, so most people who weren't good friends weren't able to know if I was on coke . I know people who don't really give off the vibe of being on coke at parties. I've never racked line after line of scarface lines though, I'm sure someone who knows what to look for will know almost immediately.                       Oct 1, 2011    #8             dennis1999  Newbie      Reputation Points:   15      Messages:  19     Joined:  Sep 4, 2011    from The Netherlands           depends on how much u take depends on ur health, so first a total body check up lol depends what they cut it with, maybe you are allergic to it or like like in holland they cut it with  atropine hehe you know better take medicines they are tested like adderall or dexdrine or ritalin  ritalin is like coke put 6 under your tongue or plugging 20 mg ritalin niceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee                          Feb 9, 2013    #9             Willyzh  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,026      Messages:  1,096     Joined:  Dec 28, 2010    from U.S.A.              dennis1999 said: ↑   depends on how much u take depends on ur health, so first a total body check up lol depends what they cut it with, maybe you are allergic to it or like like in holland they cut it with  atropine hehe Click to expand...   All these things are very true, I was just thinking about them in this thread: https://drugs-forum.com/forum/showthread.php?p=1252197#post1252197     dennis1999 said: ↑   you know better take medicines they are tested like adderall or dexdrine or ritalin  ritalin is like coke put 6 under your tongue... Click to expand...   DO NOT put 6 adderall under your tongue!!!!!!!!!  One person I know told me this: "called my doctor. He said anything over 80mg is severe and an actual overdose. The highest prescription for ADDerall is 80mg. My symptoms took nearly two full days to diminish."  Since they usually come in 20 or 30 mg's, 6 can kill you. If you are lucky and you got 6 5's you'd be fine.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Tags:   snorting drugs        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                             Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - has anyone here OD'd from Cocaine  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by jimmyjames35 , Apr 28, 2013 .            4.33333 / 5 ,        has anyone here OD'd from Cocaine   4.33333  5   3 votes  3 votes     Page 1 of 2   1  2  Next >          Apr 28, 2013    #1             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           i would like to hear from people who have Od'd . what was the ROA? amount used? were their warning signs? Did u know what was happening? it's a really thought and i would shock people with my tolerance and the kinda lines i would do, going thru balls in a night by myself but i never once was worried or felt i was in any danger of ODing, however now i'm IVing and i can totally see how someone can OD. i assume the largest percentage cocaine overdoses are from IV i'm just guessing tho. i'm pretty new to it so i don't always get prefect results from every shot. but when i do and i really loaded it up it's an amazing fealing but kinda scarry. i'd just like to hear from people who have been there  thanks jimmy                       Apr 28, 2013    #2             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           Iv is definatly the ROA that is the easiest to od on. Once x amount of the drug is in your vein, there is nothing you can do put wait and hope it wasnt too much. With smoking, you will know, before you exhale if the hit was too much and you can exhale much of it out, minimizing( somewhat) a possible overdose. Both roa's are best started with low doses.                       Apr 28, 2013    #3             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           yeah i also smoked and even though my heart would sometimes feel like it was gonna leap out my chest, the rush is so different with iv. i wrote a post about this earlier because i don't understand how so many people, and just dummies, drug educated and informed people on forums like this equate the high from smoking and iv as similar when they feel worlds apart to me. to get back on topic the thing that's so unique to iv and also the thing that scares me is when it hits hard you nearly pass out dissiness, buzz in ears, it's like your whole body feels like its wavering in and out like a funhouse mirror. i don't get heart beating out my chest like with crack . anyway when that wave hits you after a shot and you don't know if that's the peak it can be a scary moment. so then you tell yourself to take a smaller shot next but that feels like a let down. its crazy because before you know it with shooting and with smoking even more so. you are chasing a whole other animal. when you snort was are chasing that cocaine high, with this shit im just after that rush. it basically feels like your overloading your system and its causeing malfunction that we get off on. kinda sick if you think about it                       Apr 28, 2013    #4             source  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,359      Messages:  1,188     Joined:  Apr 24, 2010    from england              jimmyjames35 said: ↑   when it hits hard you nearly pass out dissiness, buzz in ears, it's like your whole body feels like its wavering in and out like a funhouse mirror....  .... you are chasing a whole other animal. when you snort was are chasing that cocaine high, with this shit im just after that rush. it basically feels like your overloading your system and its causeing malfunction that we get off on. kinda sick if you think about it Click to expand...   Great description of injecting too much cocaine and how it feels. Like you say, chasing that high is never going to amount to much, and as bad as some overdoses on cocaine are, we still chase even that high.  You are completely correct about overloading your system and almost getting off on the destruction of our own body. It's the crazy 'pushing it to the limit and beyond' attitude that some of us addicts have, where we are not simply happy with a smooth ride, we need to push it as far as we can to see how bumpy it gets. Self-destructive for sure, and the risk that so many of us take in pursuit of the ultimate rush, or ultimate high.                       Apr 28, 2013    #5             Willyzh  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,026      Messages:  1,096     Joined:  Dec 28, 2010    from U.S.A.           The thing I noticed the most from a shot that was too loaded was suprising- intense fear. Dying from cocaine wouldn't be a fun way to go. There's no euphoria overload there. Your body knows instantly that it has gotten too much and the pleasure is completely replaced by intense fear of dying.  I don't think it's psychological. It seems very physical. Before you even know you have taken too much, fear starts creeping in, bodily weakness, knees weak, vision fading with redout/tunnel vision beginning. You can't respond well to anything, and it's not just being unable to talk cuz you're zooted- you can't even think of words. Not geeking, fading. Your hearing starts to fade and change with buzzing, ringing and like your head is in a metal box, and then if it's a bad one, fading too.  If you are lucky, friends are there with a cold cloth to your head, not yelling a bunch of crazy shit at you that makes the panicky state worse. Sitting calmly breathing deep and concentrating on staying conscious is about all you can do. SHooting coke is one of the most dangerous things a person can do in the drug world, IMO. If your arms aren't total pincushions by next day noon and you're lucky to be alive, you'll probably do it next weekend too. Idk how I was resistant to coke  addiction . I guess cuz the high is so pointless and fleeting. When all I wanna do is have sex I'd rather be able to. :s                       Apr 29, 2013    #6             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           In my life their have been alot of people say that crack has a completely different high than powder cocaine . They would say i don't like crack because its a mellow high, whereas powder is an amped up high. I would alway counter with how much of either one have you done?? Both can be either high, crack cut with the least amount of baking soda possible, will blow your sox off and have you ready to take on the world but there is nothing jittery about it. Its almost like a natural feeling of superior rage, excitement and numbing of the senses. You wont be sitting after a good hit of some rock like that.  Also, what i believe in my life to be the purest powder ive ever snorted wasn't super ampy, it wasnt mellow either. That was really the best cocaine , rock or powder, i ever did. I did like 4 or 5 small lines in about an hour. It actually was real scary during the first hour. I did 2 small lines back to back, they were small because the fella who had the stuff told me to cut the lines i first cut out, in half. He said the last thing he needed was a white boy to OD on his couch! i took his advice. 2 small lines had my face nose and throat sooo numb i couldn't feel myself swallow.  Let me tell ya dude, if you cant feel your self swallowing, its feels like your choking. I was very afraid for awhile. Then as the numbness wore off enough for me to swallow again, it was such a clean amped rush, but i didnt care if we did anything, i sure didnt feel like getting into a fight, things that previous ampy coke made me want to do. This stuff was like controlled rage that was total euphoria . No anxiety or wanting of another line until 3 or 4 hours after my last line.  Point being, i have done crack , both ampy and mellow. Most of the time crack was a mellow stimulant high. I have also done coke that is mellow and ampy. The ampy coke was an awesome buzz, the only times i thought i was going  to OD, but it was always a short lived, replaced by bad anxiety and depression , and once the numbness wore off, your nose and soft pallet would hurt so bad. Most mellow coke i did, wouldnt even cause me to pace. I would just sit on the couch all night long doing lines, nose would be slobbering everywhere, but it was always clear. There would be no anxiety or depression , i would just sit there all night and think the most euphoric thoughts to myself, staring off into space. The urge to do more, would only come if i did a small amount and when it did, it wasnt panic and jittery.  I have smoked and snorted some really good cocaine but it was the jittery trash coke that had me close to feeling like im gonna OD. I always wondered why this was.What was it cut with. My face would go white as a ghost, my insides would get cold but i would be sweating balls and i would usually start dry heaving multiple times in a row.  I never felt like i was going to OD on a more pure product?? Usually the better the quality the more i could do, the only difference was starting off small and work my way up to more and more. With decent grade i would start out huge and work my way down to average. Hits or lines. Crack never once made me feel even remotely like i was going to OD, and i used to take massive hits and hold them in as long as possible.      Last edited: May 2, 2013                    Apr 29, 2013    #7             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           All this time it was cocaethylene I enjoy, by combining with alcohol . When I do coke on its own I get paronoid when I redose. Even though I think I'm going to die, as soon as it wears off I'm back in the same boat quickly be redosing. So stupid. I find snorting more intense and hits me almost right away and wears off after ten minutes.  I find smoking mellow. Not intense. And if i smoke enough I'm actually content. I only want more after a small bit, if i only had a few hits. The thing I like most about smoking is the taste.                       Apr 30, 2013    #8             Fight Club  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   481      Messages:  174     Joined:  Sep 27, 2007    from U.S.A.           Hey - so nobody really answered your questions; I will.  NIK's first OD happened 4-5 months after he started IVing  cocaine .  After buying street coke for most of this time, he hooked up with a connect in So. Cali that had FAR SUPERIOR product.  First night shooting, he gets the wah-wahs.  On his hands and knees trying to maintain balance as the world goes back-and-forth, back-and-forth.  Wisely, he hung it up for the night.  Next night, back seat of the car, after shooting for a couple hours, he loads and fires .5g, but loses it before he's half-way through. Starts shaking violently, then goes blank.  Had a grand mal seizure with cardiac arrest, and was kept alive by CPR until EMTs arrived.  NIK learned to measure his doses carefully and time his shots to avoid the above scenario since then (2002) but still pushed the limit on many occasions where he did the chicken dance and or "fished out" where he lost motor control of his limbs for up to 20 minutes, but remained conscious.  NIK gave up IV cocaine (and all drugs, including alcohol ) because he liked this stuff way too much, but liked living more, and knew he couldn't have both.  He has been continuously clean for over three years now.  If you are going to continue to push the limits, which, I know you are, follow NIK's advice and stay alive:  1. Don't shoot coke alone 2. Premix all your shots.  5-10 mil of H20 per 3.5 g cocaine 3. Preload your shots.  It will keep you from loading a "really fat one" when you cant see straight. 4. Release tie after you register - push 1/2 then count to 10 before you push the rest.  Be safe.  Have fun  FC                       Apr 30, 2013    #9             Julya  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   125      Messages:  18     Joined:  Apr 18, 2013    from Canada           The way FightClub describes it is really accurate. I had the same thing happening to me, also from mistakes with the dosage while iv-ing. I'm ashame to say it happened more than once . I agree with all the tips he gives in his post.  I would only add to be careful even with pre-loaded shots if you are on a looooong binge. After a few day without sleep or food, what would be a small shot tolerance wise can be alot for your messed up body. The tip he gives as #4 is particulary important in those times. Its always better to take care of yourself by sleeping and eating every day so you should always aim for that, but I know you know that.  Have fun !                        Apr 30, 2013    #10             techn1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  4     Joined:  Jun 16, 2009    from U.S.A.           Has happened to me twice while IV'ing. First time was after a weekend binge with two other people.We scored our third 8th from the same person, and even though the first shot was supposed to be small to "check it out", it was very different stuff and I don't even remember finishing the push. No angels or family members or any of that shit,,just there one second gone the next, nothing in between. Woke up to my future wife doing CPR,and just a few minutes before the cops showing up,because obviously my two friends made quite a bit of noise between freaking out and trying to get me back. After the cops finally left I remember being extremely pissed off because they flushed the 'ball when the cops got there. Second time was almost same circumstance except I let my uncle make up a shot and he split it in two,,not taking into consideration he had 20 years more use experience than me, and he weighed in at about 290 and I at about 125 lbs. Once again don't think I even finished the plunge before I no longer existed. Woke up in a cold shower getting CPR again. That was the weekend I quit shooting any drugs.Smoked and snorted after that for many years,now other than my pain meds that I pretty much only use as I should, haven't touched anything for 3 years.                       Apr 30, 2013    #11             ld1980  Newbie      Reputation Points:   45      Messages:  22     Joined:  Mar 7, 2012    from U.S.A.           I always wondered why it was such a concern to OD on Coke ....I have snorted half ounces of good stuff over a couple days and never felt sick or close to ODing.  I even blasted it for a period, and remember one day I IVd an eight ball in a couple hours.  Same thing - no negative effects other than the usual.  Probably has alot to do with your genetics, general health, and whether or not there are other underlying cardiac issues, I would think.                       Apr 30, 2013    #12             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           thank you all for the advise. i'm doing tonight or this morning what i hope is my last run( although i said that Friday) i'm doing a lot of things i shouldn't. for starters. i'v been alone every time ive shot. this is because i'm not a kid whose experimenting with his buddy's, i'm a grown man who is ashamed to let anyone know he's shooting. the is a huge stigma to it. people who snort take the opportunity to feel better than someone for a change and non users will probably try to have you committed. i told one friend and he freaked out. so i'm always alone when using and it's crazy because i'm actually prepared to o'd in some sick way because i make sure to have the phone next to me I've even gone to the extent to punch in 911 and wait to see if i need to press dial, but from the sounds of it from everyone i wouldn't get that opportunity. it also sounds like you would have died had no one been around i completely relate to that fear when a big one first hits you, it's not fun but after a few mins when u know you're ok it almost feels like you beat death and that's a weird rush in itself. i smoked years ago for a short period and it was insane. iv doesn't get my heart racing, but smoking did and the comedown was the worst feeling in the world. but the rush was so intense, especially the first hit of the night that you craved it all week, that's all i could think about. even today when i see a movie and someone is smoking crack i actually hold my breath with them, its crazy, and for a long time i would almost get high explain crack o someone. i need to stop iv'ing, it's too intense. I only started because i had done so much damage to my nose i couldnt use it anymore, i didn't realize what kind of door i was opening up. i have never felt this kind of fear getting high. i was a hardcore meth user and it completely destroyed my life but i never felt like i was gonna OD and i was high at all times. literally . when i first started iv i was doing a shot then going out and snorting the rest of the night, then come home maybe if i had some left and shoot again, maybe. now i'm not going anywhere. i'm just in a room alone fucking the shit out of my arms. that's the other concern i have. i suck at this and i have terrible veins, that i didn't help  by not knowing what i was doing at first. I've got a better handle but i still miss like crazy and have numb or painful hands and arms for days, that's scary too. and i haven't really given any time to fully heal cause i'm back out in like 2 3 days. anyway i got a ball tonight. hopefully i can call it a wrap withouttryingto finish it but that's not really my style. thank you for the advise really  jimmyjames35 added 13 Minutes and 36 Seconds later...  i do have a question. when u find a vein that works do you keep hitting it or keep trying new spots  jimmyjames35 added 21 Minutes and 21 Seconds later...  how many shots in a night is excessive . how many needles do you have ready for a session because and i know this is a big no no, i don't know the extent of how bad it is to do but i only start with a pack of ten and i always run out and reuse. never the same one 3 times tho. how bad is this really?      Last edited: Apr 30, 2013                    Apr 30, 2013    #13             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           Getting yourself in the same vein over and over because it's a "good vein" is a big mistake. I know some H addicts that take all day to hit themselves only after a year of IV, because they didn't rotate sites. But surely it's applies to injecting any drug .                       Apr 30, 2013    #14             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           maca1 thanks for tip. what happens to the vein exactly.. I've heard people mention collapsed veins but i don't really know what that is. i have been rotating like a mf since starting a few weeks ago. i feel likes it's been longer. that's cause i'm going two days and in bed for 2 days it feels. i get some strength back and i'm shooting again. these days are hard to keep track of when your not doing anything elsde but drugs and recuping. its crazy. but i think i made a mistake rotating so much in the beginning. i don't have many veins and i'm missing like crazy. and my arms are a mess. now i  have a better idea what i'm doing but now i have to work around the botch job i did. i was doing goodnin my hsnds but a few misses and its a lot of pain and scary numbness. not to mention and i probably could have killed myself. i didn't take air out of syringes or like up bevel my first maybe 2 sessions.. there was crazy air that i just pumped into my viens. and it swelled up my arms. some of it is still lingering cause i put air in my best viens at the crease of my arm. a little worried about that                       Apr 30, 2013    #15             Maca1  Newbie      Reputation Points:   3      Messages:  206     Joined:  Jan 31, 2010    from earth           The vein swells and the vein closes up, stopping the flow of blood. It's mainly caused by the damage done to the vein by the needle. Using new needles and rotating sites is what you should keep in mind. It can be temporary or permanent. The veins can swell from the pressure from pulling back on the plunger. Obviously let any swelling subside.                       Apr 30, 2013    #16             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           did u say pulling back on the plunger causes this issue? i thought swelling was from pushing  jimmyjames35 added 19 Minutes and 18 Seconds later...  one more question because i'm not sure what are the advantages or disadvantages to adding more water in your shots. if the shot has the same amount of cocaine what is adding more or less water affecting      Last edited: Apr 30, 2013                    May 1, 2013    #17             Julya  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   125      Messages:  18     Joined:  Apr 18, 2013    from Canada              jimmyjames35 said: ↑   how many shots in a night is excessive . how many needles do you have ready for a session because and i know this is a big no no, i don't know the extent of how bad it is to do but i only start with a pack of ten and i always run out and reuse. never the same one 3 times tho. how bad is this really? Click to expand...   There is no way to tell how many shots in a night is excessive for you, as we all have different body/tolerence/quality of the product. Trust yourself. Some people will do a 3.5 in a few hours, other will be ok with 1 g in the same time frame, there is no rule.  As for your needles problem, you can go to your needle exchange and explain what you just told us here. I went there and explained that I was often running out of fresh pins. They really understand those kinda things. They hooked me up with a box of 100 brand new and 2 yellow bins for disposal. Since then when I have about 10-15 left I go back with my bins and they give me another 100 box for them.  You know re-using is very bad. They have that poster at my exchange that shows you a zoom of a needle that been use 3 times. The thing looks like a cactus. Not only new rigs are a must for your health, but you'll have an easier time sticking yourself. There is nothing bad about them, really haha.  Be safe !                        May 3, 2013    #18             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.           thanks julya. i have never been to a needle exchange in ny, not sure where they are, i should look into that. i just go drug store but they only can sell you 1 pack without a prescription. i could just go another spot for a pack but i havent had that foresight yet. i keep thinking 10 is enough and by the time i realize im running out its too late, the pharmacies are closed. also then i should ask what if you miss a few times, isnt that the same as reusing, should i just dump it back in spoon after a miss. i guess that would be the suggestion but i doubt anyone is that dillagent or maybe after some time you dont really miss much anymore. i gotta be more on top of being clean and careful. the problem is like a lot of drug abusers what has brought us down this road is the fact that we don't really care enough about ourselves to take precautions, thats how we got here. It's really ironic. i don't want to speak for others it's just something i feel about a lot of hard drug users. this is the first ROA that i've ever done that requires so much work and such a crazy learning curve. i guess part of the problem for me is i didn't have a partner or some buddy to show me the ropes. i decided alone to experiment and i've learned the hard way some of what to do and not to do, luckily not too hard a lesson though like i now know can be the consequences of doing things the wrong way. for that i owe this website and all the users who have been so helpful in helping me to fix my mistakes. i made the horrible decision to go down this path but you have all been essential in providing a bit of light to help see the way. thank you                       May 3, 2013    #19             makatak  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  2     Joined:  Mar 1, 2013    from U.K.           OD'ing from cocaine is quick and very simple to diagnose. Seen most often as Heart failure with no sign of cholesterol build up, or undiagnosed heart disease. Any one with first person experience of his will not be replying to ths email due to heart failure. Not 'heart attack' as there will be no prior knowledge/symptoms. The heart will just stop.  If this happens you have approx 120seconds to ge to an ECG machine other option is 2-3 hours of compression pumping before getting natural response.  Cocaine is a very dangerous and celebrity endorsed underestimated drug . It makes your heart 'want to' stop. Nothing else has this direct malfunction effect.  Queens MSc biology and coke lover - be carful x                       May 3, 2013    #20             jimmyjames35  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   220      Messages:  176     Joined:  Apr 20, 2013    from U.S.A.              makatak said: ↑   OD'ing from cocaine is quick and very simple to diagnose. Seen most often as Heart failure with no sign of cholesterol build up, or undiagnosed heart disease. Any one with first person experience of his will not be replying to ths email due to heart failure. Not 'heart attack' as there will be no prior knowledge/symptoms. The heart will just stop.  no, I don't expect dead people to post responses to this thread. i was including a broader more general use of the term overdosing. you are speaking of overdoing that leads to complete heart failure. that would certainly constitute an OD but i think people who become unconscious for any amount of time, or people who become completely disoriented physically and/or mentally, or someone who suffers from any kind of heart issue or any other organ issue for that matter that required immediate medical attention during a session would count as Overdoses in my book. Just basically going so far over the line as to experience some immediate trauma from said use. Click to expand...                            (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Page 1 of 2   1  2  Next >     Tags:   cocaine  cocaine overdose  injecting cocaine  iv cocaine  overdose        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - crack overdose amount  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by lorentz5 , Feb 14, 2011 .            0 / 5 ,              Feb 14, 2011    #1             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.           Having extreme difficulty finding an actual number. Can't find anything here, on erowid, google, etc. The best guess found was "0.1-0.2g is a typical dose." No need for dissuasion either; AFOAF was a crack virgin and smoked 0.4g over an hour his first time, but dared not go higher. It is understandable that it is difficult to know an exact number, due to variables (purity/administration/etc), but in the spirit of harm reduction , what amount constitutes an unsafe dosage?                       Feb 14, 2011    #2             Pain Hurts  Mercury Member      Reputation Points:   55      Messages:  571     Joined:  Feb 11, 2011    from Canada           it really depends on the person and can say from personal exper. coke is a funny drug .  ....  stay away., but I did hear about a guy who smoked $1,000 worth, weighed out.                       Feb 14, 2011    #3             Moving Pictures  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   4,244      Messages:  2,879     Joined:  Feb 4, 2010    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           There's no set dose. I mean, if someone could smoke 1 or 2 grams in one hit, it would probably kill them. But that's not possible to do. Crack is more of a cumlative overdose, if that makes sense. You have to keep smoking more and more. A good rule of thumb though is to put the pipe down when you start having uncomfortable heart palpitations, shaking, blurred vision, extreme anxiety /paranoia, profuse sweating, etc. It surprising hard to do though! Even with those horrible effects! And even when you do put away the pipe and try to ride out those horrible effects swearing you'll never smoke again, once they begin go away, it's even more surprising how quick you are to pick up the pipe again.  My friend remembers many days/nights spent in his room, laying in bed, praying for those effects to go away and when they finally did, he'd start smoking again and have the same damn effects! Then he'd go back to curling in a ball, pray for them to go away, swearing he'd never smoke again only to pick it up again as soon as the effects lightened up. Continue the cycle until he ran out of crack . And to think of the money he spent to put himself through all that! Lord! That shit gets a hold on you, man. Crack is baaaad news. Use at your own risk...      Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #4             Rikki-tikki-tavi      Reputation Points:   292      Messages:  185     Joined:  Jan 26, 2011    from U.K.           In one study i read, a crack user study in sao paulo, only 8.7% of patients in a long term suffered any cocaine overdose. It also found that overdose was more likely in users with preexisting cardiovascular problems. #1  I also found that it has much to do with whether the person has been drinking alcohol , as in the presence of alcohol , the cocaine can become cocaethylene .  The LD50 in mice was 93 mg/kg for cocaine versus 60 mg/kg for cocaethylene , the study also notes that as the process of turning cocaine to cocaethylene takes some time, this might explain why cocaine overdoses happen 6-12 hours after ingestion. #2  I know this doesn't give exact quotes to the figures and im sorry, i cant find them either. It doesn't seem to be a very common happenstance to smoke too much, perhaps due to the quick onset of a smoked dose, allowing the user to tell they have had something strong, and also down to the smaller half life of the smoked dose meaning that less cocaethylene or cocaine can be built up.  It's worth noting if you are estimating overdoses on crack from the figures on cocaine , that crack is also "stronger" due to the molecule being less heavy, crack will deliver the same punch for 89% of the weight vs cocaine hydrochloride.  Hope this helps!  #1 http://www.scielo.br/scielo.php?pid=S1516-44462006000300010&script=sci_arttext #2 http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/813959-overview       Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #5             Moving Pictures  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   4,244      Messages:  2,879     Joined:  Feb 4, 2010    29
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           ^That interesting information. But yeah, a crack overdose doesn't really happen in one hit cus you can only smoke so much in a hit and the high doesn't last long. An overdose doesn't usually happen until you've been smoking for hours/days and have built up a huge amount in your system. Compared with iv cocaine / crack where you can introduce a huge amount into your body in one go, crack is far harder to overdose on. But the nature of crack is that you want to keep on smoking it no matter what so it's hard to stop once you start feeling those negative sideeffects.  Personally, my friend finds the cravings from crack to be far stronger that snorting or shooting cocaine . Not saying those are easy to put down but crack comes and goes so quick, my friend has never felt such a strong desire to redose as he does with crack . I mean, with sniffin and shooting, the high tapers down and then you start fiending but crack , you're really high and as soon as it starts to come down, you HAVE to have more. Like to take a hit of crack and want another one 30 seconds later. The stuff is crazy. I know I'm going off topic here but I don't think the compulsiveness of crack can be overstated. You've never fiended for a drug until you've fiended for crack . Shorter crash than iv or snorting but far worse cravings.                       Feb 14, 2011    #6             Spucky  Palladium Member      Reputation Points:   2,953      Messages:  2,332     Joined:  Feb 9, 2009    from japan            AW: crack overdose amount  By Experience i can tell that the lethal Dosage of Crack-Cocaine is bound to the Health-Profile of the Person!  The Hardcore smoking Crack Consumer die mostly by Exhaustion !  But, there is also something like a Shock, where the Brain just take off the Lung because of a Shock. (Brain to Lung, Brain to Lung, you are off you Fool- i told you that) This can be happen when the Consumer smoke the big Hookah!  Edit: Translation: Everything is depending on the amount of the intake in a short time, you can smoke a few Hundred gramms or even more when there is Time, but smoking more than 0,4g in one Blow is more than dangerous!      Last edited: Feb 14, 2011                    Feb 14, 2011    #7             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.              Like to take a hit of crack and want another one 30 seconds later. The stuff is crazy Click to expand...   Most agreed, AFOAF spent about an hour of his comedown frantically searching the webs for an answer to the OD question to see if he could continue smoking and ease the comedown . Upon finding nothing, he restrained himself.  Thank you everyone for the prompt and informative replies. AFOAF smoked 0.3g in about 15min, 0.4 in an hour, and by then he was starting to get very bad side effects , tweaks, irritability, strange heart rhythm, mild difficulty breathing. He posted he to get an idea of where to set an hourly cap. 0.4g/hr if it's one every couple of weeks sound very dangerous?  He was a crack virgin, and it struck him profoundly how dangerous this practice can be. He will probably do it again sometime in the future, but he values living over maximizing his high, so limiting amount available from the start seems prudent, hence the question.      ​                        Feb 15, 2011    #8             Piglet  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   675      Messages:  1,255     Joined:  May 28, 2005    47
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.K.            Cocaine can cause sudden death from heart-failure at a dose taken many times before without incident. Heroin has rightly got the title for the highest death toll amongst it's abusers, but cocaine is number two on the list.  It affects potassium channels in the heart causing arhythmia - you don't feel chest pain, you just keel over & die. I've seen it happen. I'm thinking that while dimethocaine makes a poor substitute, it is likely a lead compound for a safe cocaine replacement (the -NH2 means it to screws with the heart & it's not required for DRI).                       Apr 4, 2011    #9             lorentz5  Newbie      Reputation Points:   49      Messages:  42     Joined:  Dec 30, 2009    from U.S.A.           Thanks Piglet,  OP has given up crack since then.  He'd like to say, he thoroughly enjoys reading your posts here, especially the LSD synth material. Very inspiring as OP is studying chem with just a slight interest in drug dev. Just slight  Can you explain how the amine messes with the heart? OP is now prescribed an amine for ADHD; it works pretty well and he hasn't experienced any heart problems.      Last edited by a moderator: Apr 9, 2011                    Mar 15, 2017    #10             Robotweak  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  2     Joined:  Jan 9, 2017    from Canada           Based on my personal experiences researching crack rocks, I've come to find that typically its actualy much harder than one would think it is to fatally OD from coke . I have heard however from multiple people/sources over the years that its roughly 4-5 grams of PURE cocaine within a relatively short time period, making it hard to judge considering the vast purity differences in white powder as well as the ROA at the time.  The vast majority of cases that did end in death were from mules who tried to smuggle large amounts inside their bodies and a packet opens up, or from those champs banging it straight in the veins (like most all drug ODs in general)  I feel like research has already OD'D several times in the past due to crack rocks as well as one time just snorting powder, mind you no hospital was visited and no death or painful lasting side effects today.  Like the time 7 grams was smoked by one person over a period of 6-8 hours...definitely od'd, wasnt fun.  Anyways heres a detailed list of the 5 top signs to watch for in a bad cocaine overdose by a user, for users...  Basically you'll know when it happens... 1). suddenly you hit stimulant  psychosis reaal hard and unpredictably, usualy one can handle themselves in this state if they are a senior tweaker but not this time, you beleive everything u see hear and think.  2). The sweats is also a key warning, not like normal stim sweats but sudden drenching of the whole body and face and you may feel compelled to strip nude or go outside.  3) is the nausea, and i mean nothing held back, you will painfully dry heave up stomach acid and will have a hard time stopping.  4). is the classic shakes, not the typical speed twitches but a very noticeable and difficult to deal with heavy shaking, you wont be able to pack a bowl or hit a vein for the life of you, but you will probably still try.  5) warning sign isnt always present but is definitely the most worrisome of all, passing out and loosing consciousness...this is the worst of all signs and shouldnt be taken lightly, ive seen a good number of times after pushing the rigs plunger in and a few seconds later they nod forwards and like a powerfull opiate dose go unconscious after a few unprecedented and violent shakes or mini seizures...  Now if your like my friend then you may continue shooting up more once you regain consciousness and come to, and you may still be alive, but its playing Russian roulette as there are many factors involved, mainly its the heart.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content       Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Overdose - information on cocaine overdoses  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by billy1nk , May 28, 2009 .            2 / 5 ,        information on cocaine overdoses   2  5   1 votes  1 vote          May 28, 2009    #1             billy1nk  Newbie      Reputation Points:   60      Messages:  36     Joined:  May 22, 2009    from U.S.A.           I am about to inject a large amount of cocaine and would like to make sure he is not OD'ing. The amount is approximately 150 mg of cocaine . He just shot up about 75 mg and got a throat rush similar to the same one he got when he OD'd on meth where it kind of feels like you're being strangled for a couple seconds. The 75 mg shot gave swim a little nausea but felt good and gave him ear ringing but no flash. Swim 's friend says the 150 mg shot should produce great ear ringing and a bright flash. That is what I am aiming for. I do not mind OD'ing he just doesn't want to end up in the hospital. He is comfortable with puking and can control himself to not have a heart attack or stroke. I am a common heroin user and has strong opiate tolerance. He did a lot of heroin last night and shot up a couple hours ago. He is not sure if this is speed balling but he feels he has come down from the heroin so he thinks he should be safe. I don't really have uppers tolerance as he does not regurarly do cocaine or meth . I am 6'3" and 170 pounds in pretty good health and shape. What are swim 's chances of OD'ing? I have only OD'd once on a 300 mg shot of meth . He is not sure how pure the meth was and how much of the 300 mg was actual meth but it caused him to OD. He just had palpatations, puked like 10 times, felt like shit for a few days, but generally was ok and didn't realize he OD'd until the next day. Swim just doesn't want to go to the hospital tonight. If I do OD aside from remaining calm and keeping his heart beat level, what should I do if this happens? What are the symptoms of a cocaine over dose and at what point is it necessary that I go to the hospital. Also swim plans on using his heroin to come down off the cocaine later, how many hours should I wait after last cocaine injection before it's safe to use heroin without risking his heart stopping?                       May 28, 2009    #2             100mg Methylphenidate  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   117      Messages:  403     Joined:  Sep 2, 2008    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  That's ignorant. Very very ignorant. That's a huge leap in dosage and there's more to avoiding a heart attack or stroke than just calming yourself down. When swim overdosed on methylphenidate , he lost control. He couldn't control his heart any further. You can't control vasoconstriction or seizures on his own either. That's just dumb. I'm not aware of the bioavailability of insufflated cocaine , but You may wish to look into that.                       May 28, 2009    #3             billy1nk  Newbie      Reputation Points:   60      Messages:  36     Joined:  May 22, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I didn't say you can calm down and completely avoid a heart attack, stroke, or seisure. Swim said that it simply helps and when he OD'd on meth that's what he did. If you are OD'ing on the drug then having a panic attack can cause the worse OD symptoms leading to death while if you calm down you can avoid the panic attack and not die. Swim mostly just asked a lot of questions in his post and doesn't see how he was percieved as ignorant. Asking questions is not ignorant. Sitting here rattling off false facts as if I know what I'm talking about is. Therefor, I believe you are ignorant about ignorance. GOT'EM  Anyway, I injected the 150 mg of cocaine and was fine for the most part. He got the weird throat strangulation feeling followed by intense ear ringing for a minute followed by extreme nausea and puking. Swim hung out in his room for about thirty minutes to an hour listening to music and playing online games then injected the rest of the cocaine which was approximately 200+ mg. This brought on even more intense ear ringing and vomiting by still failed to get the flash effect.  I am going to wait until his heart beat slows down and then inject heroin until he can fall asleep. I am buying an 8 ball of heroin cut with morphine tomorrow afternoon, who's jealous?  And next time swim come's on a forum asking for advice to not OD, simply give him the advice rather then sit there and call him ignorant. It's a waste of time I'm simply trying to be safe about my drug use which is what this site is for. There is no need to be an asshole.                       May 28, 2009    #4             100mg Methylphenidate  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   117      Messages:  403     Joined:  Sep 2, 2008    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  "I do not mind OD'ing he just doesn't want to end up in the hospital. He is comfortable with puking and can control himself to not have a heart attack or stroke."  I'm not trying to start an argument with you. It's just that original statement is pretty 'not smart'. Nothing you do at a certain dose is going to control a seizure. And even if your heart is going 180bpm and you're controlling your breathing and trying to relax, your blood vessels are still contricted and your blood pressure is probably way too high to consider remotely safe. Overdosing to any degree is dangerous, and if You is willing to push his limit on dosages, it would be wise to lay off for a while and let his tolerance drop.  With stimulants especially, ones mental tolerance grows much faster than the physical one. It is very possible to overdose and not get as high as desired.  I'm sorry you took my post so personally. And I'm glad You made it out okay. I don't wish an overdose upon anyone. Otherwise, I wouldn't have even bothered posting here.                       May 28, 2009    #5             Benga  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   4,178      Messages:  4,772     Joined:  Aug 15, 2005    from japan            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  second that. stimulant overdoses are often quite drastic, and it's easily possible to reach a state where little can be done. because swiyou had a "lucky" overdose on meth is no reason to state that swiyou doesn't mind overdosing on cocaine , and just doesn't want to have a stroke or heart attack. it's a little more complex than that as i'm sure you know, so please rethink this whole approach and lower those doses.    I.V. Cocaine Overdose   what happened, did swim almost die? collection of cocaine O.D. experiences &questions    b                       May 28, 2009    #6             Fight Club  Titanium Member      Reputation Points:   481      Messages:  174     Joined:  Sep 27, 2007    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  OP - glad to hear that you are OK. Your approach was a bit reckless, but your questions are good. Without knowing the purity of your coke , and a bunch of other factors, no one can say what amount of IV cocaine would produce a life-threatening OD.  NIK has injected as much as much as .4 g of relatively pure (washed) coke and fished around a bit without any other ill effects. He once injected .5 g and had a grand mal seizure which ended in cardiac arrest and near death. He was kept alive by CPR until EMTs arrived. If he had been alone (which he usually was) when he slammed that dose, he would not be alive today.  NIKs not sure what "flash" you crave, but proceed carefully until you get there.  A few suggestions that will help:  1. Premix all your solution at once. 3.5 g / 10 ml of water or saline is a good place to start.  2. Prefill your syringes. You won't blunt the tips trying to fill them when you get the shakes, and you won't be as tempted to load a "really fat shot" when you are gakked out.  3. Space out your shots. Every 30 minutes or so will give the coke in your system time to burn off, and you will get a better rush than if you do them one after another.  4. Remove tie after you register. Shoot half, wait 10 seconds, shoot the rest. If you get a way strong batch, the 10 second pause may save your life.  All the best. Be carefull; have fun.  FC                       May 30, 2009    #7             dkmonk  Mercury Member      Reputation Points:   53      Messages:  50     Joined:  Dec 28, 2008    28
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I would start out at .1 grams and go from there, swims g/f had a grand mal seizure from doin .3 grams iv'ed and when I did .5 he had to control his breathing and move around a little bit because I was scared if he diddnt that he wasnt going to be able to control himself  edit what is this flash you guys are talking about, I has never experience this and has done a lot of quality coke , done so much swim heard converstions going on in my head and it sounded like there was and ocean in there too or a metellic fly going around but never a flash, dont know what you mean by that                       May 30, 2009    #8             BoxStar  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   814      Messages:  198     Joined:  Sep 9, 2007    from earth            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  No one can predict on what amount a particular person will overdose, however cocaine has a narrow therapeutic index due its local anesthetic effects on the heart and CNS which means that beyond a certain dose, approximately 250mg IV, the systemic local anesthetic effect becomes very dangerous and the danger increases dramatically above 400mg, this effect plus the hyperadrenergic state induced by cocaine is what causes life-threatening seizures, deadly cardiac arrhythmias and respiratory collapse; anyone can die of a heart attack or stroke with much lower doses ( slamming  coke can particularly cause a hemorrhagic stroke) there is no such thing as safe dose of cocaine , especially injected.  75mg of injected cocaine is a good dose for a non-tolerant user; 150mg is a high dose and is strongly advised not to go above that unless tolerance is present and the effects felt are reduced considerably.   Speedballing usually means to inject cocaine and heroin at the same time dissolved together in one syringe.  If You slams enough coke to require a hospital there is a pretty large chance that You will be unable to do anything about it, slamming  cocaine can cause complete loss of consciousness in less than 30 seconds and death in 5 minutes, the symptoms of an stimulant overdose are pretty much universal if You has gone too far on meth before he will probably recognize the symptoms, for cocaine is especially important to carefully measure the heartbeat; a very disorganized beat can be the only warning of a possible deadly cardiac arrhythmia like polymorphic ventricular tachycardia .  I had that one a few times caused by overdoses ranging from 375mg to over 600mg, once he ended up being defibrillated wide awake because of his tolerance to benzos and his hyper stimulated state made the sedative given useless and I was about go into fibrillation (heart rate was rapidly increasing), it was an experience SWIM cant forget; the worse overdose he ever had (around 650mg injected due a mix of unusually pure substance and being too fucked up to properly measure) literally killed him, he had a massive seizure within 15-20 seconds after injection lasting around 2-3 minutes and although it stopped and he was still breathing he did not regain consciousness; lucky for him paramedics were less than 5 minutes away, he went into ventricular fibrillation (cardiac arrest) in the ambulance (about 7-9 minutes after injection) and was “dead” for two minutes, lucky for him his heart restarted with a normal rhythm after the third shock; he left the hospital with no lasting “serious” damage 8 hours later, walking on his own and signing his release form to the astonishment of medical personal.  In SWIM opinion, You drug use is reckless and may prove suicidal, You must not care about his life whatsoever; You is not worried about overdosing but doesn’t want to end in a hospital? No problem; You will most likely end up in the morgue.  There is no point on doing drugs to end up overdosing, puking all over the place and potentially killing oneself, this is not preaching from the safe zone; I have been there doing that for years and has meet people that had the same attitude as you, the ones still alive now take life much more seriously after having seen its fragility but many are no longer among the living, having pointlessly faded away in a rush of terror; I was there to see a girl overdose, by time SWIM noticed that something was wrong with her about two minutes after injection she could not speak and was partially paralyzed, SWIM called 911 right away but she died of a massive brain hemorrhage on the hospital; I will always remembers her eyes, she was in the most overwhelming terror I have ever seen in someone, not a nice way to go.  You might think I am an asshole but honestly he doesn’t care as he writes this for all the people who might be reading and could be considering following such a path; someone needs to speak the truth about what is like to slam coke , the risks and to advice that overdosing is not fun, not the way to do drugs and really unreasonable.      Last edited: May 30, 2009                    Jun 6, 2009    #9             ctsracer06  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  4     Joined:  Jun 5, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I had a overdose onetime on some pretty good Cola. Probably 60 to 75% pure, big chunck right of the brick. I bought a quarter ounce and could not stop myself, probably snorted 4 grams within 24hours with about 3, 3hour breaks, at the end of the night of all this I took two small key bumps and smoked two hits of pot, then it started. I felt tingling in his arm and heart was racing, I took cold bath to cool down his body temp and drank lots of water then but never drank much water before said events. This didnt work as my arm started to go numb, I called 911 and they sent the ambulance, when the got their my whole arm was numb to the point where if I would scratch it HARD i wouldnt feel it. When the paramedics got to my room to help me the left side of my face was starting to go numb along with my left arm. Luckily they i think pumped my stomach, im not sure. But swim survived, after he got home from the hospital he did a LONG FAT LINE OF COLA and never did it again after that.                       Jun 6, 2009    #10             bugatti99  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   212      Messages:  25     Joined:  May 8, 2009    from U.S.A.            Re: Need information on cocaine overdose asap  I would have (since You has already done it) recommened not to try this. It was double the dose of the first. Maybe tried 100mg then maybe 125mg THEN maybe 150mg? That would much more safe and give You a better idea on how much You can handle before its too much too late. I don't think he would/could have talked You out of it but just trying to make sure you have thought about possible consequences before plunging in. If you were to have a real OD there would be little You could do. Heart attack, stroke, convulsions, skipping heart beats. If its a serious OD, medical attention might not even make it in time. Trying to calm You down and all that will help but it doesn't mean it will work. It is hard to say how much it would take to have a OD, since quality of the cocaine and You tolerance and many factors come into play but You will know if You od'ing. Have someone there that is able to dial for medical attention is a must, dont try this alone. I wouldn't count the meth OD as something to compare by, this could be much worse or much better. Just be safe of course if You must try this again.  I would consider himself lucky.                       Jun 7, 2009    #11             xxdan123xx  Newbie      Reputation Points:   34      Messages:  171     Joined:  Feb 27, 2009    31
				
				y/o          IF You were to od on coke You wouldn't even realize it before You were in the ambulance.  (provided someone is there to call).. It hits like a truck and You will black out and start convulsing.  I have seem 2 good friends have this happen...ONly one came back.  Seriously it's a terrible way to go and swim watched his friend puking and convulsing so violently...It was terrible probably the most traumatic experience of my life..                       Oct 31, 2012    #12             OutsiderMo  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  1     Joined:  Oct 29, 2012    from U.S.A.           I did the same thing. THe first shot I had, I used a small amount and a small needle and it took forever to get it, I was not satisfied with the buzz. So I took the rest that I had ( I had a 20, the first shot was prolly a five dollar hit) and swim immediately got a crazy rush and her ears started ringing. Swim 's never had that big of a high on crack before, even on all night binges. I am trying to breathe slow and take it easy. At first I was panicking, and quickly went here to find a similar question. swim think's it has been about 10 minutes since swim the shot, and swims heart is still beating fast, but has slowed down a lot. Talk about learning a lesson. Swim just wanted to make sure they got a buzz, and not waste it all by taking small doses and not being satisfied. It never occured to swim that one could overdose on hard, but the feeling I had afterwords totally made her realize that death could be around the corner. I am a heroin user and only occasional uses crack , most of the time its because someone is sharing with her. I usually smokes it, but 1 out of every ten time shoots it, to get that fast longer rush. I has def. learned her lesson, and will measure things wisely, and test the strength before taking a large hit.I am def waiting a half hour to an hour before doing the rinse of her combined shots, and shes not even sure she should do the whole rinse at once, for fear of another close call. Swim 's question is, considering the strength of the crack , and the almost overdose experience, should I only do half of her rise at once?  OutsiderMo added 1 Minutes and 18 Seconds later...   Swim hopes someones can reply asap. Swim will start a new post just in case.  OutsiderMo added 16 Minutes and 44 Seconds later...  Sorry, my pet llama is a newbie, that fuzzball wont make many mistakes that she did in her comment. My pet llama read the rules , and did a fuzzball face-palm. My pet llama was grateful for the information that this thread provided. My pet llama apologizes.      Last edited: Oct 31, 2012                    Oct 31, 2012    #13             Wanderer  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   3,445      Messages:  1,425     Joined:  Oct 30, 2009    from earth           No one here will tell you to use or not to use illegal drugs, or make recommendations on dosages for how much one should or should not take with drugs like cocaine .  It is unpredictable and is one where less is more is the rule.  For more information read the sticky:   Whats the Safe Amount of Cocaine to do in a Day?  Be well...                       Mar 31, 2013    #14             Bentheredonethat  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  1     Joined:  Mar 29, 2013    26
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from U.S.A.           A friend of mine has been on a binge I.v'ing coke and has done about a quarter/7gs a day and blown about xxx$ this week alone he's had several train rides and wobbly legs and blurred vision and what not. He's 160lbs and 5"10 and very athletic tho, recovering heroin addict. He now aims for this feeling every time putting about a xx$ which here is about .4/.5 of a G in one cap with 100cc of water and doing it in two shots maybe one, might I add it's about 85-90% pure and cut with b12 so very strong he's went unconscious several times, thrown up, fell down from wobbles and everything else. I'm scared at this rate he's going to die any day now. He can't stop in too deep.  Any suggestions for me to tell my friend?      Last edited by a moderator: Mar 31, 2013                    Apr 1, 2013    #15             Cirox  Newbie      Reputation Points:   45      Messages:  80     Joined:  Apr 11, 2011    32
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from brazil           Had I an overdose ??  When I was alone in my home, at dawn, locked in the bathroon, I was shooting coke in my veins. In 8 or 9 shot, I feel my pressure down, my mouth dried, I feel cold, and my vision darkened. I sat on the floor, and I threw some water on my face. About 5 or 10 minutes, I was normal again, (I dont know if I fainted or not). I didnt take shoots that night again, but next 3 days I was shooting again (moderately). This event was an OD ??  Cirox added 1112 Minutes and 56 Seconds later...  up!!!!  Cirox added 0 Minutes and 31 Seconds later...  why cocaine is a so much compusive drug       Last edited: Apr 1, 2013                    Apr 2, 2013    #16             Wanderer  Platinum Member & Advisor      Reputation Points:   3,445      Messages:  1,425     Joined:  Oct 30, 2009    from earth              Cirox said: ↑   Had I an overdose ??  When I was alone in my home, at dawn, locked in the bathroon, I was shooting coke in my veins. In 8 or 9 shot, I feel my pressure down, my mouth dried, I feel cold, and my vision darkened. I sat on the floor, and I threw some water on my face. About 5 or 10 minutes, I was normal again, (I dont know if I fainted or not). I didnt take shoots that night again, but next 3 days I was shooting again (moderately). This event was an OD ?? Click to expand...   Maybe, maybe not, sounds like the edge was pushed a bit.  This should be a warning to slow down a bit.  To push things anymore would potentially be life threatening.  Besides, you ask if you had an overdose over the Intertubez.  This is something which cannot be diagnosed by a web forum.  If you are concerned or are in trouble, seek emergency attention immediately. The life you save may be your own.     Cirox said: ↑   why cocaine is a so much compusive drug Click to expand...   It's a complicated thing, but cocaine just happens to hit all the right receptors and transporters in the right way to make it euphoric and compulsive at the same time.  If it becomes a problem, then one should seriously consider stepping back away from it for a while or possibly permanently before one does serious damage.  Be well...                       Apr 2, 2013    #17             Booty love  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   1,420      Messages:  3,205     Joined:  Feb 4, 2013    39
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from Some Beach, Somewhere:)))))           My experience with cocaine from the very beginning, was a love hate relationship. The first 15-20 uses were always small because of the price. From my first line in like '98 till i quit in '08, the one thing that separates coke from all the other drugs i have done in my life. Its power over the user. Once that first line snorted, the brain already wants more, even before the positive effects have worn off.  I have always thought,  something as expensive and addictive, as cocaine , should last longer. Imagine cocaine with the positive effects lasting as long as meth . What a drug that would be. The only true way to enjoy all your cocaine , is to have more than you want. Your brain stops craving it, after a certain amount has been done.                       Mar 20, 2017    #18             Some stupid guy  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  20     Joined:  Feb 3, 2014    from earth           My dog had lots of ugly experiences with large amounts of coke done very fast, always snorting .   But once something happened with my dog, maybe a couple of years ago, and it scared the shit out of him.  My pittbull had done a good amount for some hours, and after it was over, the dog went on Benzo for coming down. There was a Absolute vodca bottle used for pure drinking water, and it was on the floor of the dog's bedroom.  Maybe an hour after the last line, the dog was feeling pretty much ok, standing up (it's a 2-legs-walking dog), and then he went down, lowering his head, in order to grab the bottle on the floor and drink some water.  Then, blank . My dog just passed out, doesn't remember anything after making that movement.  The dog woke up and he was laying down with his face on the floor, the bottle glass broken all over (he fell over the bottle, broke it with his face, and miraculously didn't got hurt). The dog's arterial pressure was very low, he was shaking and sweating cold, and all he could do was stand up and throw himself onto his bed, just breathing and waiting.  Maybe it took 5 or 10 minutes for the dog to fully recover, just laying down and breathing, thinking "it's all going to be ok, the worse has passed, just chill, it's gonna be ok".  Remarkable my dog could find glass pieces of the broken bottle over his bed weeks and weeks after the incident, and did not have a single scratch.  My dog is pretty much sure he passed out because he put his head down, but the scary thing is that the dog has passed out for various reasons before, and it never happened so fast ; as fast as the dog didn't fell dizzy even one second before blank.  The dog did worse many times after, but never experienced anything close to that single incident.  OD or not, makes the dog think about how dangerous coke can be.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content   Tags:   cocaine  coke  injecting  intravenous injection        Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                            Log in / Register                Drugs- Forum                 Menu   Recent Posts       Home        Home  Quick Links     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums        Forums  Quick Links    What's New  Featured Threads  Recent Posts  Rules       What's New        What's New  Quick Links    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals        Journals  Quick Links    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles        Articles  Quick Links    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki        Wiki  Quick Links      Reviews        Reviews  Quick Links    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media        Media  Quick Links    New Media      Studies        Studies  Quick Links    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups        Groups  Quick Links          Help        Help  Quick Links    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat       Helpdesk        Helpdesk  Quick Links    Open New Ticket       Menu         Log in     Register                      Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >             Dear Drugs-Forum readers: We are a small non-profit that runs one of the most read drug information & addiction help websites in the world. We serve over 4 million readers per month, and have costs like all popular websites: servers, hosting, licenses and software. To protect our independence we do not run ads. We take no government funds. We run on donations which average $25. If everyone reading this would donate $5 then this fund raiser would be done in an hour. If Drugs-Forum is useful to you, take one minute to keep it online another year by donating whatever you can today. Donations are currently not sufficient to pay our bills and keep the site up. Your help is most welcome. Thank you.  PLEASE HELP            Health - Cocaine deaths  Discussion in ' Cocaine & Crack ' started by Panth_Cocaine , Oct 18, 2004 .            0 / 5 ,              Oct 18, 2004    #1             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          1) What excatly does cocaine kill [first], when you die? Your heart or your brain (and, if it depends, what's usually killed first?).   2) Is O.D.ing the only way to die of cocaine ? (or are there slower, more 'certain' ways, that will eventually kill you, even if you don't O.D.?)   3) Is it possibly to be left severely brain-damaged instead of dead by cocaine (both by O.D.ing and whatever other side-effects that may exist)   4) If you O.D. and nobody finds you fora day or more, is there any chance thatyou won't die?                       Oct 18, 2004    #2             thcannibislover  Newbie      Reputation Points:   1      Messages:  37     Joined:  Sep 27, 2004          Shit if you are that worried or dont know that much about coke DONT DO IT, or get some one who does to show you the ropes. personaly if your wanting to get wired, caffien getts me more energetic then coke does. coke just made me numb and give me an attitude that I hated the most, a very egotistic drug if nothing more.                       Oct 19, 2004    #3             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          I'm perfectly well aware of the fatality of cocaine use, I just don't know the details about death. As for number 4) I mean, that there is no chance you're brain-damaged instead of dead - that is, if I ever wanted to commit suicide I don't wanna end up brain-damaged. 4) isn't written in fear, cos' I'm pretty certain it ain't a good idea if you wanna stay alive...   I'm not hoping to stay alive till I'm 85...   As Jim Morrison sang 'No-one here gets out alive'   If you want a long, normal happy peaceful suburban existence, you probably don't do cocaine . I don't care if I die, I just don't wanna be brain-damaged, and that's the purpose of this thread                       Oct 19, 2004    #4             HardCash21  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  38     Joined:  Mar 5, 2004          No brain damage can result from using cocaine with exception of rare cases when over dosed to the max.  I wouldn't worry about that.  The most common death associated with cocaine is cardiac arrest.                       Oct 20, 2004    #5             Panth_Cocaine  Newbie      Reputation Points:   8      Messages:  16     Joined:  Oct 18, 2004          ok                        Mar 25, 2005    #6             tootmyhorn  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  3     Joined:  Jan 24, 2005          Answer to Q2: Per my research, It will weaken you over time and you will need more and more. Not to mention, a person becomes brave and try other things along with coke . Once in a great while is the way to go so your body recovers completely and the high will be awesome too. Please read and do more research and you will feel more comfortable with your descision.                       Mar 26, 2005    #7             Patrick131  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  48     Joined:  Jan 18, 2005          if i'm not mistaken, cocaine is a vaso-constrictor and with repeated use it narrows out the walls of the arteries and makes them hard.each time you gethigh, your heart has to work harder in order to get the blood to all of the necessary places in your body.   stroke is alsocommon with od cases dealing with coke as you've probably discovered from researching. so for question 1, I would say that it depends on whether you've over-exerted your heart and caused it to fail, or you've screwed something up in your brain and caused it to fail. either way, one cannot function for more than five minutes without the other. so i don't think it matters which goes first.                       Mar 26, 2005    #8             hippie_lain  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   273      Messages:  313     Joined:  Oct 10, 2004    from U.S.A.           Yes...any od with coke usually has to do with the heart. Just dont do a gram in a night and you wont even get close to oding. When you do an 8-ball in a night is when you need to take a look at yourself and decide what is more important. As far as long term damages coke is pretty harsh. It basically puts mirco holes in your heart, decreasing the heath of it and increasing the risk of heart related illnesses. Id cheak erowid.com and look up links from that site top find out more. In my opinion Id keep it to a couple lines when at a party...when you get to grams a night weak hearts will take a real beating.                       Mar 26, 2005    #9             fletch  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   39      Messages:  171     Joined:  Dec 9, 2004    from Canada           basically what happens is coke gives your body a false energy, and in doing so causesincreased blood flow, which with contiuned or heavy use causes debris from a bodily chemical (cant think ofthe name)in your artaries and stuff which eventually can cause blocks, and someday a heartattack.                       Apr 13, 2005    #10             raven3davis  R.I.P.  Palladium Member  R.I.P.      Reputation Points:   942      Messages:  1,490     Joined:  Jan 6, 2005          After using cocaine for a long time it can fuck up your heart so bad that you will probably die of a heart attack. Cocaine will kill your heart, not your brain. I guess if you ODd to the point where you stopped breathing for an extended amount of time, the lack of oxygen to your brain could cause brain damage.    4) If you O.D. and nobody finds you fora day or more, is there any chance thatyou won't die?    yes. You could overdose, and be okay. I have had friends who injected .7 grams and overdosed and they are fine now. I don't really think it matters if someone finds them in a day or not because after a day, they will either be dead or not.                       Apr 13, 2005    #11             enquirewithin  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   3,605      Messages:  5,785     Joined:  Dec 11, 2004    from bermuda           Not sure about that. If someone OD's one coke there is a very good chance that they CAN be saved by paramedics. They can start up your heart with an electric shock. You are unlikely to get any significant brain damage.     IVing  cocaine and heroin together can be very dangerous.    Prolonged cocaine use does not appear to cause much permanent physical damgage except to you nose (if you can afford to take that much!)    Edited by: enquirewithin                        Apr 13, 2005    #12             Kittyofftitty  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   2      Messages:  74     Joined:  Nov 10, 2004    30
				
				y/o          1.  Usually the heart is what goes out first although sometimes the clogging of arteries in your brain can lead to stroke which kills some of your brain.  2.  Actually, if you are healthy and somewhat young, ODing on cocaine is pretty hard because young hearts and arteries can take the pressure put upon them.  What is more likely to kill you is continued use into old age or taking a reasonable amount when you are quite old.  This is because extended use can strain your heart so after a while it will not be able to take the speediness and will quit, or if you have never used cocaine before but are quite old you are pretty likely to have a weaker heart or a build up of plaque (or whatever it is called) in your arteries do to old age.  This means that when you use cocaine for perhaps the first time you are much more likely to have a heart attack and/or stroke.  3.  Strokes can lead to brain damage but for the average user a stroke is unlikely.  4.  I think so, strokes often don't kill but don't  trust me on this one, ask a doctor.  ALWAYS make sure you don't have any sort of heart complication before doing coke .  Heart failure is the #1 cause of major cause of coke injuries.                       Apr 13, 2005    #13             DURBANS  Newbie      Reputation Points:   0      Messages:  42     Joined:  Apr 11, 2005          What about if you are fat like me? Oh, and my father suffers from high blood pressure .   Maybe if I start doing some exercise there will be no problems?                       Apr 14, 2005    #14             enquirewithin  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   3,605      Messages:  5,785     Joined:  Dec 11, 2004    from bermuda           If you are so worried about it, follow your instincts and don't take it. Do something more interesting!                       Apr 14, 2005    #15             Kittyofftitty  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   2      Messages:  74     Joined:  Nov 10, 2004    30
				
				y/o          I would think that a good cardiovascular work out to strengthen your heart would help but using coke with high blood pressure seems risky.                       Mar 8, 2006    #16             Alicia  Gold Member      Reputation Points:   786      Messages:  1,588     Joined:  Jan 12, 2005    from earth           The other risk, I suppose that i dont think I have seen mentioned, swim heard this from a gp. but some people are susptical to have cardiac problems with first use and possibly experience od. but this was rare apparently the only thing thou how would u know if you have heart problems if u haven't be diagnosed its the same gamble with drug-induced psychoses no one will about til it happens.. Just a thought.                       Mar 8, 2006    #17             Sickness Life  Newbie      Reputation Points:   5      Messages:  28     Joined:  Mar 7, 2006          Think of small casual coke use as heavy smoking..  If you OD, You either have a stroke or a seizure and are fine the next day, the stroke will infact usually kill you however, Kidney failure can happen do to longterm use, but its comparable to kidney/liver failure from alcoholism.  It can damage your heartt.. Infact it does, I dunno, my friends cousin just died from a heart-failure, we are contributing this to heavy drug use including alcohol an perscription drugs.   Coke can be used safely, but you have to be careful, i guess its like do u really wanna challange the beast an for how long                        Jun 16, 2007    #18              Alfa  Productive Insomniac  Staff Member  Administrator      Reputation Points:   13,728      Messages:  37,988     Joined:  Jan 14, 2003    117
				
				y/o 
				
				
			
				
				
					from The Netherlands            Deaths related to cocaine  There have been growing concerns about the health risks of cocaine use, particularly because of the trend of increasing recreational use observed in some countries, especially in settings (discos, clubs) frequented by youth groups. Despite the difficulties in estimating the number of cocaine-related deaths, this measure may act as a valuable indicator of increased risk or help to identify risky patterns of use. Although acute deaths in which cocaine is present without opiates seem to be infrequent in Europe, it is likely that current statistics are inadequate in recording cocaine-related deaths. The information that is available about cocaine deaths at the European level is limited and is reported in different forms. Cocaine use is frequent among opiate users, and it is common to find cocaine in toxicological analyses of cases of opiate overdoses, in addition to other substances such as alcohol and benzodiazepines .  Several countries reported information about cocaine deaths in 2003 (Reitox national reports): Germany (25 cases involving cocaine alone and 93 involving cocaine in combination with other drugs; in 2002, the corresponding figures were 47 and 84), France (10 deaths due to cocaine alone and one associated with a medicine), Greece (two cases due to cocaine ), Hungary (four deaths due to cocaine overdose), the Netherlands (17 deaths due to cocaine in 2003, with an increasing trend between 1994, two cases, and 2002, 37 cases), Austria ( cocaine was found in 30 % of drug-related deaths, but alone in only three cases and in one case in association with gas), Portugal ( cocaine was found in 37 % of drug-related deaths) and the United Kingdom (‘mentions’ of cocaine in death certificates increased from 85 in 2000, to 115 in 2001 and 171 in 2002, with an eightfold increase over the period 1993–2001). In its 2003 Reitox national report, Spain reported that, in 2001, cocaine was present in 54 % of all drug-related deaths; in 39 cases (8 % of all drug-related deaths) death occurred in the absence of opiates , of which 21 were caused by cocaine only and five were caused by cocaine and alcohol .  Despite the limitations of the available information, cocaine seems to have played a determinant role in between 1 % and 15 % of drug-related deaths in countries that were able to make the differentiation between drug types causing death, with several countries (Germany, Spain, France and Hungary) reporting figures of around 8–12 % of drug-related deaths. Although it is very difficult to extrapolate these results to the whole of Europe, this could mean several hundreds of cocaine-related deaths per year at EU level. Although the numbers are much lower than deaths caused by opiates , cocaine-related death is a serious and possibly increasing problem; in the few countries where trends can be estimated, they tend to show an increase.  In addition, cocaine may be a contributing factor in deaths due to cardiovascular problems (arrhythmias, myocardial infarction and cerebral haemorrhages; see Ghuran and Nolan, 2000 ), particularly in users with predisposing conditions, and many of these deaths may pass unreported.   Source: EMCDDA (EU)      Last edited by a moderator: Sep 9, 2007                    Jun 20, 2007    #19             dbjay417  Newbie      Reputation Points:   39      Messages:  136     Joined:  Jun 9, 2007          The #1 cause of all drug related deaths is supression of accurate information by the government. If parents and teachers could be 100% open about drug use with teens and young adults a lot of deaths could be prevented.  The man put pot, coke , and H all in the same group and said "those are bad, dont do drugs." Problem is, most people try pot and discover that its almost completely harmless. Once that happens, people immediately start to wonder about the other drugs on the list.  If they would just be honest and go in depth, they could prevent a good deal of addiction and in effect drug related crime, overdose and indirectly drug related deaths.                       Jun 20, 2007    #20             tayo  Silver Member      Reputation Points:   420      Messages:  1,009     Joined:  May 14, 2007    from U.S.A.           that's an interesting argument..^^ on a side note  something like ~70% of cocaine deaths are caused by acute respiratory depression . just a little add-on from some link off erowid read a few years ago.                         (You must log in or sign up to reply here.)   Show Ignored Content       Your name or email address:      Do you already have an account?     No, create an account now.  Yes, my password is:    Forgot your password?          Stay logged in             Drugs-Forum    Home     Forums  >    DRUG INFORMATION & HARM REDUCTION  >    Cocaine & Crack  >                   Sitelinks   Homepage  Blog  Chat  Forum  Journals  Media Gallery  News  Reviews  Social Groups  Studies     Information   4.1 Million Visitors per month  250,000 Members  195,000 Newsletter Subscribers  Site Rules  Terms of Use  Helpdesk  Register to Participate  Did you forget your password?                      Help                      Close Menu  Recent Activity     Home     Menu  Drug Addiction  Drug Testing  Medical Marijuana   Recent Posts        Forums    Recent Posts       What's New    Overview  New Posts  Wiki  Journal Entries  Journal Comments  News  News Comments  News Reviews  New Items  New Reviews  New Questions  New Media  Studies      Journals    Journals List   New Journal Entries  New Comments       Articles    Series   New Articles  New Comments  New Reviews       Wiki      Reviews    Brands  Notable Authors   New Items  New Reviews  New Questions       Media    New Media      Studies    Most Active Authors  Latest Reviews      Groups          Help    FAQ  Helpdesk  Open New Ticket  Your Tickets  Site Rules  Bug Tracker  Site Use Questions      Live Chat    Helpdesk    Open New Ticket      Search                  Ads from Google:                            Google ad      End of ad      Google Adsense ad        End of ads.         Independent expert answers on psychiatry and psychology        Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Abstract: Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine.               Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account                    MORE INFO  Addictions  ADHD  Anorexia  Anxiety, panic  Bulimia  Child care  Burnout  Depression  Healthy living  Instability  Life  Mood swings  Obesity  Personality  Phobia  Psychotherapy  Medicines  Relations  Sex  Sleep  Stress  Treatment   All answers  All categories  Tell a friend about Web4Health  This web site in other languages                 Independent medical expert answers on psychiatry and psychology     Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question  Info                                      Top   Discuss this  Get expert advice   Print           Question(s):    Written by: Wendy Moelker , Psychologist in charge, tutor, Emergis center for mental health care, Goes, the Netherlands.   First version: 22 Jul 2008. Latest revision: 22 Jul 2008.       Is it possible to overdose by sniffing cocaine?  Answer:    Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine. When the effects of the cocaine turn out badly, the user feels restless, anxious and suspicious. Sometimes the user feels so suspicious that it can turn into paranoid delusions. For
example, users may be afraid that they are being followed.  However, an overdose can be worse and lead to heart and respiratory problems resulting in death, especially with intravenous use and smoking or basing cocaine. When cocaine is injected, death can follow very fast, even after only a few minutes. Smoking or basing can also have the same effects. Fortunately, a lethal overdose is fairly uncommon.  The causes of a fatal overdose are:    Disturbance of the heart and blood vessel system. An overdose can lead to a strong irregular functioning of the heart,
and eventually failure of the heart. It can cause high blood pressure, and as a result, bleeding in the brain leading to a greater possibility of death by brain hemorrhage.   Repeated convulsions , which can happen in such quick succession that consciousness cannot be restored.   Respiratory problems resulting in respiratory failure.   There are a lot of differences in toxic or deadly doses. Some users stay alive after using a few grams while others who are allergic to cocaine can die of a small dose. The exact amount of cocaine that causes an overdose varies from person to person and depends on a variety of factors including physical condition and possible diseases. Obviously, heart problems or a blood vessel disorder in the brain increase the risk of an overdose. The
combination of cocaine with other narcotics or alcohol can increase the risks as well. Therefore, it is difficult to determine a standard for a too high dosage, also because cocaine is often cut up.  In medical literature, there is a difference between a fatal and a lethal dose. A fatal dose causes death in 100% of the cases. A lethal dose causes death in 50% of the cases.  Some doctors estimate that 1.2 grams of cocaine, when used orally, and 750-800 milligrams, when used intravenously or by inhaling, is fatal.
It is unknown how much cocaine is fatal when sniffed. (Source: Cocaine Vraagbaak, Federatie van Instellingen voor Alcohol en Drugs, 1986). A user sniffs 0.1-0.2 grams of cocaine, i.e., 2-4 lines a night.  The average lethal dose of intravenous use of cocaine is about
500 milligrams. That doesn't mean, however that a smaller dose is
safe. An estimated lethal dose when sniffing cocaine is unknown. These doses are estimates.  It is important to act rationally and fast when someone has an overdose. When the user is anxious or restless, try to calm him down. Bring him to a quiet place and never react to his delusions. It will only make him more restless. Try to talk about something else. If you notice heart or respiratory problems, contact a doctor.        See more information         Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question:   Info                         Google ad      End of ad     More Information  Is it possible to use cocaine in a sensible way?  Damaging physical smoking cocaine effects  The treatment of cocaine addiction  When the use of cocaine gets out of hand  More articles about cocaine, addiction and substance abuse          Sources, references                                                                                  Disclaimer: The documents
contained in this web site are presented for information
purposes only. The material is in no way intended to
replace professional medical care or attention by a
qualified psychiatrist or psychotherapist. It can not and should not be used
as a basis for diagnosis or choice of treatment. If you
find anything wrong, please notify us at .         To top of page                Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account           Web4Health in other languages: Finnish  German  Greek  Italian  Polish  Russian  Swedish  add-cocaine-overdose  Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health   Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health. Web4Health was selected as finalist for the 2008 Stockholm Challenge Award                       Non-Google/Clickviper Ads:  Translate Web4Health  We seek voluntary translators who are interested in translating Web4Health
to new languages. We can provide the servers, and pay you 50 % of the
income from ads on pages, which you have translated. We are especially interested
in translators from German To English, From German, Swedish or English to
French, Spanish, Italian, Greek, Finnish, Polish, Farsi, Russian.  web4health.info/en/tr/   Advertise here  Reach 300 000 visitors reading one million pages for a cost of 600 US $/month.  /en/ad/             Skip Navigation       Share your story  Feedback      Here you can say what you want, without having to say who you are. Whatever experiences you've had with drugs, it can help to get something off your chest. And you might end up helping someone else. Please read FRANK's disclaimer .   Title *     Your Story   *   Your story    Story    Your video    Video     Description     CAPTCHA Please check the box below before submitting.       Your story has been submitted for review. Thank you for sharing.    Please wait while data is saving...       If you don't like what you see on the site or if there's something missing, please tell FRANK how it could be better.  Subject *     Comments *    CAPTCHA Please check the box below before submitting.                    We use cookies on this site, click this message to find out more             FRANK helps you find out everything you might want to know about drugs (and some stuff you don't). For friendly, confidential advice, Talk to FRANK.                      Home  Drugs The facts Drugs A–Z  FRANK News  FAQs  Under the Microscope  Drugs on the Brain – Videos   Experience Cannabis: Mess with Your Mind  Cocaine Basement  Spliff Pinball       Your say Your say Hear from Others  Share Your Story  Site Feedback   Your say      Get help Get help Emergency Help  Are You 'Under the Influence'?  Worried About a Child?  Worried About a Friend?  Find Support Near You  Drug Treatment       Contact Frank       LIVE CHAT (2pm - 6pm)  email  82111  0300 123 6600       Search form   Search this site     Search for  Drugs News Stories           You are here: Drugs Drugs A-Z Cocaine     Cocaine      Skip To Footer Menu         Lines of cocaine  Show full size image      Related terms:
  White,  
          Wash,  
          Toot,  
          Stones,  
          Snow,  
          Rocks,  
          Percy,  
          Pebbles,  
          Freebase,  
          Crack,  
          Coke,  
          Ching,  
          Charlie,  
          Chang,  
          C.        The Drug     The Effects     The Risks     The Law       The Drug    Overview  Appearance  Use    Overview   It can give a powerful high that can leave you feeling really down Powder cocaine (also called coke), freebase and crack are all forms of cocaine. They’re all powerful stimulants, with short-lived effects – which means that they temporarily speed up the way your mind and body work, but the effects are short-lived. Both ‘freebase’ cocaine (powder cocaine that’s been prepared for smoking) and ‘crack’ cocaine (a ‘rock’ like form of cocaine) can be smoked. This means that they reach the brain very quickly, while snorted powder cocaine gets to the brain more slowly. All types of cocaine are addictive, but by reaching the brain very quickly freebase or crack tend to have a much stronger effect and be more addictive than snorted powder cocaine. Injecting any form of cocaine will also reach the brain more quickly but this has serious additional risks, including damaging veins and spreading blood bourne virsues, such as HIV and Hep C. Here are the main effects and risks of taking cocaine: It can make you feel on top of the world, very confident, alert and awake, but some people can get over-confident, arrogant and aggressive and end up taking very careless risks. It raises the body’s temperature, makes the heart beat faster and reduces your appetite. When the effects start to wear off, people experience a long ‘comedown’, when they feel depressed and run down. This crash can happen for days afterwards.    Next     Appearance   What does cocaine look like? ‘Coke’ is a white powder. ‘Crack’ is a form of cocaine made into small lumps or rocks that makes a cracking noise when burnt. ‘Freebase’ cocaine is specially prepared ‘coke’ and is a crystal-like powder; it is less common than 'coke' and 'crack'. On average, a gram of coke powder generally costs £42. A crack rock costs between £10 and £20.  Crack is sometimes sold cheaper by the slice or as a 'clubbing rock' for about £10.    Next     Use   How do people take cocaine? Coke is divided into lines and snorted up the nose. It is not easily smoked, unless specially prepared into ‘freebase’ or 'crack' cocaine. A rock of crack is about the size of a raisin. Like ‘freebase’, it's usually smoked in a pipe, glass tube, plastic bottle or in foil. Both powder and crack forms of cocaine can be prepared to make a solution of cocaine for injecting. Sharing needles and syringes or other injecting equipment, when injecting, runs the risk of the injector catching or spreading HIV and hepatitis C infection. There is also the risk that veins may be damaged and of an abscess or blood clot developing.     The Effects      Taking cocaine makes users feel on top of the world, wide-awake, confident and on top of their game – but some people are over-confident on it and so may take very careless risks. Its effect is much like speed (amphetamines), but is usually stronger and doesn't last as long. It can also have other effects: Raising the body’s temperature Making the heart beat faster Reducing feelings of hunger After a big night on cocaine, it's not unusual for people to feel like they've got the flu. The effects of crack smoking are virtually immediate, peaking for about two minutes and lasting for only about 10 minutes. When snorting coke it takes longer to peak but the effects still don’t last that long, only around 20-30 minutes. When the effects of any cocaine use start to wear off there can be a very strong temptation to take more, particularly with the long ‘come down’, the crash period sometimes lasting for days afterwards.     The Risks    What are the risks?  Impurities  Getting hooked    What are the risks?   What are the risks? There are many serious risks with taking cocaine. Here’s what it could do to you. Cocaine users have died from overdoses. High doses can raise the body's temperature, cause convulsions, a heart attack and heart failure. Risk of overdosing increases if cocaine is mixed with other drugs or alcohol. Over time, snorting cocaine will seriously damage the cartilage in your nose that separates the nostrils; and it is not unknown for heavy users to lose their cartilage and end up with just one really big nostril and a mis-shapen nose. Cocaine is highly risky for anybody with high blood pressure or a heart condition. Even perfectly healthy, young people can have a fit or heart attack after taking too much. Using cocaine a lot makes people feel depressed and run down. It can lead to serious problems with anxiety, paranoia and panic attacks. Cocaine can bring previous mental health problems to the surface. If a relative has had mental health problems, there might be an increased risk for you. Taking cocaine when you're pregnant can damage your baby. It may cause miscarriage, premature labour and low birth weight. Regularly smoking crack can cause breathing problems and pains in the chest. Frequent users find they begin to crave more – so it can become an expensive habit to keep. Injecting drugs can damage veins and cause ulcers and gangrene. Sharing needles or other injecting equipment can spread HIV and hepatitis infections. It's easier to overdose if you’re injecting cocaine.  ‘Speedballing’, injecting a mixture of cocaine and heroin, can have fatal results. Heavy crack users may take heroin to try to dull their cravings, so they may get hooked on heroin as well  A form of heroin, called white heroin, is easily mistaken for cocaine and people have died or been hospitalisation after snorting white heroin, which they thought was cocaine. Heroin is active in smaller doses than cocaine, so if you mistake it for cocaine, you are more likely to overdose, experience respiratory failure (this is what it’s called when your breathing stops) and possibly die. Cocaine and alcohol Using cocaine with alcohol (or other drugs) can substantially increase risk of side-effects. Alcohol and cocaine together can be particularly dangerous, as they mix together in the body to produce a toxic chemical, called cocaethylene.    Next     Impurities   What is cocaine cut with? Recent police seizures of ‘street’ powder cocaine had an average purity of just 32%. A wrap of cocaine powder can be cut with many things, such as sugar or starch, but benzocaine is most common. Benzocaine is a local anaesthetic which can produce a ‘numbing’ effect similar to cocaine, but without the cocaine ‘high’. The purity of ‘crack’ depends on the purity of the cocaine used originally to produce the ‘crack’.  However, recent police seizures had an average purity of 30%.    Next     Getting hooked   Can you get addicted to cocaine? Cocaine is very addictive and it can be difficult to resist the craving for more. This powerful craving can develop because cocaine can change the way your brain works. Although the powerful psychological dependence that can easily develop is more of a problem than the physical withdrawal symptoms, people who stop using can experience low moods and feel very rough, and this can also tempt them to take more cocaine.     The Law      Cocaine and the law ‘Coke’, ‘freebase’ and ‘crack’ are all Class A drugs – that means they’re illegal to have, give away or sell. Possession can get you up to seven years in jail. Supplying someone else, including your friends, can get you life and an unlimited fine. What if you’re caught? If the Police catch you with cocaine, they’ll always take some action. This could include a formal caution, arrest and prosecution. A conviction for a drug-related offence could have a serious impact. It can stop you visiting certain countries – for example the United States – and limit the types of jobs you can apply for.  Did you know? Like drinking and driving, driving when high is illegal - and you can still be unfit to drive the day after using cocaine. You can get a heavy fine, be disqualified from driving or even go to prison. Allowing other people to supply drugs in your house or any other premises is illegal. If the police catch people supplying illegal drugs in a club they can potentially  prosecute the landlord, club owner or any person concerned in the management of the premises.                       Skip Related Stories   top    Stories              3888         I was only 10 when I first took cocaine.   I was 10 years old when I first tried cocaine. Looking back now, I see how stupid and naive I had been, but the truth is, I trusted the people around me. That was the biggest mistake I’ve ever made.   3888 people found this helpful               4693         Coke messed me up   Until recently I’ve started going to more parties with my friends and stealing fags off my parents. Whenever I go to a party I always smoke, drink or do drugs. I just have to. I went to this party a few days ago I smoked 12 cigarettes, 3 spliffs and took cocaine.   4693 people found this helpful               5664         Coke addiction consumed me   My name is Sam. I am 25, and my husband is 26. We both use cocaine on a regular basis. It started out as a line here or there on a night out- nothing too major. Now every weekend we “get on it” and within 8 months we have spent about £15,000 on cocaine. That’s not even an exaggeration. It got to the point where I would take cocaine during the week and whilst at work.   5664 people found this helpful               3414         Before you know it, it's a way of life   Drugs make you feel good for the moment. They make you feel like you can be friends, dance and talk but they always make you feel useless in the end and they cost money, lots of it.   3414 people found this helpful             Share your story     See more stories            top   FAQs            What does cocaine do?  Cocaine powder (coke) is in a form that dissolves easily and so can be snorted through the nose. It is not easy to smoke the powder, unlike crack cocaine.
Coke can make users feel on top of the world, wide-awake, confident and on top of their game, but some people become over-confident on it, taking careless risks and some become paranoid and aggressive. Cocaine can raise the body’s temperature, make the heart beat faster and reduce feelings of hunger. After a big night on cocaine, it's not unusual for people to feel like they have the flu.  4029 people found this helpful           What does cocaine look like?  A white powder.  3078 people found this helpful           What does cocaine taste/smell like?  Cocaine has a bitter ‘chemical’ taste and smell.  3388 people found this helpful           see more faqs            Getting Help       Emergency help  Dealing with Peer Pressure  Worried about a child?  Worried about a friend?  Drug Treatment  Find Support Near You          Cocaine Basement      Cocaine on the brain video      Cocaine under the microscope                   DRUGS Drugs A–Z  FRANK News  FAQs  Under the Microscope  Drugs on the Brain – Videos   DRUGS Cannabis: Mess with Your Mind  Cocaine Basement  Spliff Pinball   YOUR SAY Hear from Others  Share Your Story  Site Feedback   Get help Emergency Help  Are You 'Under the Influence'?  Worried About a Child?  Worried About a Friend?  Find Support Near You  Find Support Near You  Drug Treatment   CONTACT FRANK Contact Details        Site Policy  Accessibility  Disclaimer  Cookie policy  Mobile site       Hi, have you got a few minutes to give us your views about the ‘legal highs’ information on the FRANK site?   Yes, begin survey     No thanks       FRANK is not online right now. Please come back between 2pm - 6pm (UK) on any day of the week. You can still:  EMAIL FRANK  TEXT 82111  CALL 0300 123 6600              FRANK IS NOT ONLINE NOW  FRANK is not online right now. Please come back between 2pm - 6pm (UK) on any day of the week.                                           Topics & Tools    Health Topics   All topics A-Z  Acid Reflux  ADHD  Allergies  Alzheimer's & Dementia  Bipolar Disorder  Cancer  Chronic Pain    CIC  Cold & Flu  COPD  Crohn's Disease  Depression  Fibromyalgia  Health Insurance Exchanges  Heart Disease    High Cholesterol  HIV  Hypertension  IBS  IPF  Menopause  Multiple Sclerosis (MS)  Nutrition    Osteoarthritis  Pregnancy  Psoriasis  Rheumatoid Arthritis  Skin Disorders and Care  STDs  Type 2 Diabetes     Health Tools   Symptom Checker  BodyMaps    Clinical Trials  Pill Identifier    Find an Online Doctor  Health News    Newsletters  Diabetes Mine              X                         Topics & Tools      Health Topics     All topics A-Z  Acid Reflux  ADHD  Allergies  Alzheimer's & Dementia  Bipolar Disorder  Cancer  Chronic Pain      CIC  Cold & Flu  COPD  Crohn's Disease  Depression  Fibromyalgia  Health Insurance Exchanges  Heart Disease      High Cholesterol  HIV  Hypertension  IBS  IPF  Menopause  Multiple Sclerosis (MS)  Nutrition      Osteoarthritis  Pregnancy  Psoriasis  Rheumatoid Arthritis  Skin Disorders and Care  STDs  Type 2 Diabetes      Health Tools     Symptom Checker  BodyMaps      Clinical Trials  Pill Identifier      Find an Online Doctor  Health News      Newsletters  Diabetes Mine           Newsletter                          Looking to lead a stronger, healthier life? Sign up for our Wellness Wire newsletter for all sorts of nutrition, fitness, and wellness wisdom.      Please enter a valid email.          Subscribe     Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.    Now we’re in this together. Thanks for subscribing and having us along on your health and wellness journey.  See all Healthline's newsletters »                 Advertisement                       Healthline  →  Reference Library  →  Drug Overdose                     Drug Overdose    Written by Mary Ellen Ellis Medically Reviewed by       SHARE     Tweet     Email     Print     SHARE                            Email this page         Your Name:     Your Email:     Recipient's Email:      Send    Email addresses will not be shared with 3rd parties. See privacy policy     Thank you.  Your message has been sent.  OK    We're sorry, an error occurred.  We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later.      Close                     Definition  Risk factors  Symptoms  Treatment  Prevention  Statistics  Outlook  Read this Next                       Drug overdose meaning   A drug overdose is taking too much of a substance, whether
it’s prescription, over-the-counter, legal, or illegal. Drug overdoses may be accidental
or intentional. If you’ve taken more than the recommended amount of a drug or
enough to have a harmful effect on your body’s functions, you have overdosed.  An overdose can lead to serious medical complications,
including death. The severity of a drug overdose depends on the drug, the amount
taken, and the physical and medical history of the person who overdosed.   Risk factors   Several factors can increase the risk of a drug overdose. These
include:  Improper storage of
drugs: Improperly stored drugs can be easy targets for small children, who
are curious and tend to put things in their mouth. It’s easy for children to
get into and accidently overdose on drugs that aren’t properly sealed and
stored away from them.  Not knowing or
following dosage instructions: Even adults can overdose on medication if
they don’t follow the instructions. Accidently taking too much or taking your
doses sooner than directed can easily lead to an overdose of a drug that is
otherwise safe for you.  History of misuse or
addiction: Intentionally misusing prescription drugs or using illicit drugs
can put you at risk of a drug overdose, particularly if it happens often or if
you become addicted. This risk increases if you use multiple drugs, mix
different drugs, or use them with alcohol.  History of mental
disorders: Mental disorders can also be risk factors for a drug overdose. Depression
and suicidal thoughts can be overdose triggers. This is especially true if
these symptoms are not being treated.   Symptoms   The symptoms of a drug overdose may vary depending on the
person, drug, and amount taken. However, universal symptoms include:  nausea and vomiting drowsiness loss of consciousness trouble breathing difficulty walking agitation aggression or violence enlarged pupils tremors convulsions hallucinations or delusions  You should seek medical help immediately if you have these
symptoms or witness them in someone else and suspect they may have overdosed. The
most obvious way to tell if these symptoms indicate overdose is if you know you
have taken drugs or have seen someone else take drugs. Getting
medical help quickly can make a big difference in the effectiveness of drug
overdose treatment.   Treatment   Treatment for a drug overdose varies depending on the situation.
Knowing how much of what drug was ingested can be extremely helpful
during treatment. However, this information is not always available. General
treatment strategies that healthcare providers may use include:  clearing the airway or inserting a breathing
tube when there is a problem with breathing giving activated charcoal, which acts in the
digestive tract to absorb the drug inducing vomiting to remove the substance from
the stomach pumping the stomach to remove the substance from
the stomach giving intravenous fluids to help speed up the body’s
removal of the substance  The healthcare provider may be able to use an antidote for
certain drug overdoses. For example, the drug naloxone can help reverse the
effects of a heroin overdose.   Preventing an overdose   Drug overdoses can be prevented in many ways. The best methods
remove opportunities for accidental overdose or triggers for intentional
overdose in the first place.  If you have children in the house, make sure that all medications,
both prescription and over-the-counter, are kept well out of reach.  If you use prescription drugs, be sure to use them only as
directed by your doctor. Do not combine any medications without first asking
your doctor if it’s safe. You should also not mix alcohol with prescription
drugs without checking with your doctor first.  If you misuse drugs, quitting is the best way for you to
prevent a drug overdose. Know that certain ways of taking drugs can be riskier
than others. Inhaling or injecting drugs may cause them to get to your brain
more quickly and also increases your chance of using an amount that can
severely harm you. If you feel like you can’t quit, talk to your doctor. There
are many programs that can help you. For more information, read about overcoming
addiction .  If you have depression or suicidal thoughts, contact your
doctor right away. Your doctor can help you get the psychiatric care you need.     Drug overdose statistics   According to the National
Institute on Drug Abuse , deaths from drug overdose are on the rise. In
2014, there were almost three times as many deaths from prescription drug
overdose than there were in 2001.  The number of deaths from overdose of prescription opioid
pain relievers increased almost three and a half times between 2001 and 2014.
Almost five times as many people died of benzodiazepine overdose during this
period.    Talk to your doctor   Talk to your doctor about all the ways you can help prevent
a potential drug overdose. The outcome for someone who has overdosed on drugs
depends on many things. It is easy to die from an overdose, but getting
emergency medical attention immediately reduces the odds. Many people who
overdose fully recover and have no ill health effects. Others may recover but
have organ damage as a result of the overdose. Rather than rolling the dice
with treatment once an overdose has happened, you may find that overdose
prevention is the safest answer.          Article Resources      Article resources    Drug use first aid. (2016, May 14). Retrieved
     from http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000016.htm  Naloxone injection. (2016, February 15).
     Retrieved from http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/meds/a612022.html  Overdose death
     rates. (2015, December). Retrieved from https://www.drugabuse.gov/related-topics/trends-statistics/overdose-death-rates           Was this article helpful? Yes  No          How helpful was it?  How can we improve it?  ✖  Please select one of the following:      This article changed my life!       This article was informative.       This article contains incorrect information.       This article doesn't have the information I'm looking for.       I have a medical question.         Change      3815117            Let us know how we can improve this article.    NOTE: Healthline isn't a healthcare provider. We can't respond to health questions or give you medical advice.   Your email    ✖  Please enter your email    Your name  ✖  Please enter your name    0    Sign me up for Healthline's Newsletter    Done     We won't share your email address. Privacy policy . Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.     We’re unable to offer personal health advice, but we’ve partnered with trusted telehealth provider Amwell, who can connect you with a doctor. Try Amwell telehealth for $1 by using the code HEALTHLINE.         Use code HEALTHLINE     Start my consult for $1   If you're facing a medical emergency, call your local emergency services immediately, or visit the nearest emergency room or urgent care center.    We're sorry, an error occurred.  We are unable to collect your feedback at this time. However, your feedback is important to us. Please try again later.      We appreciate your helpful feedback!  Let's be friends — join our Facebook community.        Thank you for your helpful suggestion.  We'll share your response with our medical review team, who will update any incorrect information in the article.     Thank you for sharing your feedback.  We're sorry you're unsatisfied with what you've read. Your suggestions will help us improve this article.             Share     Tweet     Email     Print     Share                                Read this Next                Read More »                   Read More »                   Read More »             Advertisement          Advertisement        Advertisement        Advertisement        Advertisement           Advertisement        Advertisement                Close        Advertisement                      As the fastest growing consumer health information site — with 65 million monthly visitors — Healthline’s mission is to be your most trusted ally in your pursuit of health and well-being.  You can depend on us to provide expert content along with genuine caring. Both of which will support, guide, and inspire you toward the best possible health outcomes for you and your family.       Sign up for our newsletter  Thank you!   A confirmation email has been sent, and you will receive our next newsletter soon!  See all Healthline's newsletters »  We'll help you live each day to the healthiest.   X          Subscribe     Your privacy is important to us. Any information you provide to us via this website may be placed by us on servers located in countries outside of the EU. If you do not agree to such placement, do not provide the information.        Find us on:  Facebook  Twitter  Google Plus  Pinterest         About Us  Health Topics  Health News  FDA     Contact Us  Advertise With Us  Advertising Policy  Newsletters     Careers  Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Find an Online Doctor               This website is certified by Health On The Net.  Click here to verify                  Copyright © 2005 - 2017 Healthline Media. All rights reserved. Our content does not constitute a medical consultation. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis. Privacy Policy                                                                 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511 Free & Confidential Drug Hotline. Call NOW: (888) 459-5511  Menu  Menu Addiction Guides Addiction Facts What is Addiction? Recognizing Addiction Drug Abuse Statistics Substance Abuse Triggers Polydrug Use: Get the Facts Addiction Stories Meth Addiction Stories Heroin Addiction Stories Gambling Addiction Stories Marijuana Addiction Stories Cocaine Addiction Stories People at Risk College Students and Drug Abuse Dual Diagnosis Teenagers and Students Veterans and Addictions PTSD and Addiction Self-Assessment Close Substances Resources Understanding Drugs Street Names of Addictive Substances Other Substances Alcohol Nicotine Inhalants Peyote Illicit Drugs Crystal Meth Cocaine and Crack Ecstasy Hallucinogens Heroin LSD Marijuana Spice GHB Painkillers Codeine Fioricet Hydrocodone Methadone Morphine Norco Oxycodone Tramadol Vicodin Sedatives-Hypnotics Ambien Ativan Halcion Klonopin Librium Lunesta Sonata Valium Xanax Close Treatment Guides Treatment Stages 1 ► Intervention 2 ► Inpatient and Outpatient Therapy 3 ► Lifelong Commitment Addiction Treatment Process: Overview Relapse Prevention Plan Resources Support Groups: An Overview When a Loved One Has an Addiction Drug Addiction Medications Teenage Drug Abuse – A Guide for Parents & Educators Addiction Treatment Facility Locator Close Rehab Guides F.A.Q. Can I Beat an Addiction On My Own? How Long Does Rehab Take? Medicaid and Medicare Addiction Recovery Costs Substances Alcohol Rehab Heroin Rehabs Cocaine Rehab Crystal Meth Rehab GHB Rehab Ecstasy Rehab LSD Rehab Facilities Rehab Reviews Best Drug Rehabs Inpatient Rehabs F.A.Q. Outpatient Rehabs F.A.Q. Drug Rehabs Near You Outpatient Rehabs Near You Types Court Ordered Rehabs Free and State Funded Rehabs Rehabs for Veterans Dual Diagnosis Rehabs Close About Us Our Community Scholarship About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Addiction Treatment Events Close You are here: Home Addictive Substances and Drugs Cocaine and Crack Addiction and Treatment 8 Ball Of Coke – What is the Real Cost of Getting High? Free 24/7 rehab helpline (888) 459-5511 8 Ball Of Coke – What is the Real Cost of Getting High? How Much Is An 8 Ball Of Coke? An 8 ball of coke is equal to 3.5 grams of cocaine. In fact, 3.5 grams is one-eighth of an ounce (28.34 grams). For this reason, they call this amount an 8 ball of coke. Besides, the drug dealers and buyers may also use this term to refer to the same amount of meth. A Quick Overview Of Coke What Is Coke? Coke is the most popular nickname of the stimulant drug Cocaine. Interestingly, it is both an illegal drug as well as a legal medication. The addicts use it by snorting, smoking or injecting. It causes high by increasing the level of a brain chemical. They call it dopamine. The source of coke is coca leaf. The effects of coke depend on the duration of abuse. Also, how they use it also determines the effects. In general, they are an increase in alertness, irritability, violent behavior and restlessness. It is a high profile illicit drug. Notably, many rich people have shown an undying love for this. This fetish is one of the reasons why the drug cartels are enjoying a honeymoon period. What Is The Price Of An 8 Ball Of Coke? It is not easy to pinpoint the price of an 8 ball of coke. Various factors determine the street cocaine prices. For example, it depends on the supply, demand, and state they live in. In fact, determining the price of an illegal drug is almost impossible. This is true, even for the DEA officials. As a result, it creates a puzzle. There are many sources that claim the price of an 8 ball of coke to range from $60 to $80. While others report that cocaine prices in America are $120 per gram. This clearly shows how the price can vary by a huge margin. Hope Without Commitment Find the best treatment options. Call our free and confidential helpline Call Now: (888) 459-5511 Here is one authentic report on the price of cocaine. This is according to the analysis of Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA’s) System to Retrieve Information from Drug Evidence (STRIDE) data. It says the price of cocaine in January 2007 was $98 per gram. Likewise, the price per gram increased to $193 at the end of December 2013. The Economics Of Coke In The US Purer cocaine at a lower price only indicates the cutthroat competition among the drug suppliers in the US. From the 1980s to the present, this has been the trend of cocaine business. In fact, the vendors are using this strategy to establish their foothold in the drug world. This shows the dirty face of narco-terrorism. As per the DEA analysis, cocaine purity has stayed almost the same since the last few decades. That is at 90%. This trend has continued since its widespread availability in 1985. Yet, this is not the case for the crack, a crystal form of cocaine. There is a sharp fluctuation in the cocaine prices among different cities. Besides, the DEA officials say the prices may vary even within a city. This may have a link with the high variations in the purity. For these reasons, determining the prices of cocaine is a headache for them. An 8 Ball Of Coke Costs More Than The Dollars No doubt, cocaine causes many negative health effects. When you look at the economic burden of this problem, the price to pay only surges. In fact, cocaine ranks second among the drugs that cause overdose deaths. In 2014, 5856 Americans died by overdosing on it. Cocaine prices and visits to ER have an inverse relationship. Simply put, the higher the price, lower is the level of emergencies and death. This is according to a study published in Statistics in Medicine 1995. All things considered, the price you pay for an 8 ball of coke is definitely higher. After all, coke is nowhere near to the value of your life or health. Why They Use An 8 Ball Of Coke Instead Of 3.5 Grams As a matter of fact, finding the exact reason for this may not be possible. Nevertheless, the term “8 ball of coke” is famous among the drug dealers and the users. One probable reason might be that using such terms makes the deal secretive. That way, they might be able to prevent the flow of the information to the police. How Has Coke Supply Suffered In The Last Decade? Starting from early 2007, cocaine supply to the US has plunged. The most important factors for this include: Sliding cocaine production in Colombia Increased demand for cocaine across the globe especially in Europe Higher amount of cocaine seized through 2009 Increased counter-drug activities by the government of Mexico (This is according to the National Drug Threat Assessment 2010 report) Want To Know More? To learn more about the price of coke, talk to the experts. They can provide you the most accurate information on this. Looking for professional medical help for Cocaine addiction? Get the best rehabs page here . Free 24/7 Treatment Helpline (888) 459-5511 Speak confidentially with a compassionate counsellor. Feel hope without commitment. Cocaine Addiction & Rehab Resources The Effects of Cocaine Cocaine Withdrawal Symptoms and Timeline Cocaine Detox How Cocaine is Made How Cocaine is Cut Cocaine Rehab Guide Drug Rehab Resources Best Rehabs Rehab Reviews Local Rehabs Locator Free and State-Funded Rehabs Inpatient Rehabs Outpatient Rehabs Rehabs by State: Illinois Rehabs California Reviews Washington Rehabs Ohio Rehabs North Carolina Rehabs New York Rehabs Texas Rehabs Montana Rehabs More Rehab Resources Rehabs: Cocaine Rehab and Recovery MDMA Rehabs LSD Rehabs Spice Rehabs Marijuana Rehabs Crystal Meth Rehabs GHB Rehabs Jewish Rehabs Alcohol Treatment Centers Heroin Rehabs Jewish Rehabs Veterans Rehabs Holistic Rehabs LGBT Rehab Centers Dual Diagnosis Rehab Centers Alcohol Hotlines Rehab Hotlines Drug Rehab Information Speak to a representative concerning substance abuse treatment or request printed material on alcohol or drugs. Call (888) 459-5511 . The information available at AddictionResource.com is not a substitute for professional medical help.  This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here. Addiction Resource Newsletter Receive useful information about the addiction treatment options, motivational success stories as well as other materials to help you beat or avoid addictions. Your Email Terms And Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us About Us © 2014–2018 AddictionResource.com. All Rights Reserved. Back to Top Your Treatment Can Be Free! Call our Confidential Helpline 24/7 Our treatment specialists offer: Free substance abuse treatment information Caring, supportive guidance Financial assistance options, verification of insurance benefits All calls are confidential and will be connected to Delphi Behavioral Health Group.  CALL NOW: (888) 459-5511 CLOSE                     Call 1-888-287-0471 Your new sober life starts here, it can start right now.  Who Answers?                 1-888-287-0471 Your new sober life starts here, it can start right now.  Who Answers?        Toggle navigation             Home    Addiction Treatment    Alcohol & Drugs    Prescription Drugs    Behavioral Health    Substance Abuse    Resources    Treatment Options    Podcast        Search                 You don't have to be an addict forever. Get help. Call Now.  1-888-287-0471   Sponsored by Top Treatment Centers   Who Answers?             GET REHAB     Can You Continue LYING to Yourself?  or  Do You Want to Get Help?    Friendly Treatment Advisors are available 24/7  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?   You can also contact us via:   Email  Live Chat    Or browse treatment in your area                  Live chat  Currently offline    To Receive a Call Back:        Request a call back    Or call us right now to talk to a caring advisor    1-888-287-0471              Home    Cocaine    Alcohol and Drugs    Cocaine Overdose              Cocaine Overdose    Written By:  Lauren Brande, MA       Article Summary Print     Common Signs of Use    Typical Overdose Symptoms    Treatment      html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/loose.dtd"  xml encoding="UTF-8" Cocaine is an illicit stimulant that can have a powerful impact on the user’s health and wellbeing. The powder form of cocaine is most commonly snorted or dissolved in liquid and injected. 1 The more potent, hard-rock form of cocaine is known as crack and can be smoked. 1 More than 900,000 people met the criteria for cocaine dependence or abuse in 2014, and abuse rates have remained fairly stable since 2009. 2  No matter the form, cocaine’s effects can come on quickly and some users will suffer an overdose and its potentially lasting consequences.  Nearly 5,500 people died from a cocaine overdose in 2014 alone , 3 and knowing the overdose symptoms may help someone get the medical help that he or she needs to survive it.  Common Signs of Use  Cocaine abuse can have detrimental effects on a person’s mental and physical health. There is even some evidence suggesting that cocaine can actually kill brain cells. 4 When cocaine is abused, the user experiences a multitude of reinforcing effects, from euphoria to increased energy and a sense of outgoingness. 5 Hidden behind this enrapturing face is a darker myriad of unpleasant, and sometimes dangerous, side effects.   Using cocaine can result in any number of worrisome symptoms : 5  Rapid heart rate.  Tightened blood vessels.  Increased blood pressure.  Dilated pupils.  High body temperature.  Behavioral effects:  Reduced appetite.  Restlessness or insomnia.  Anxiety, panic, or paranoia.  Strange or erratic behavior.  Tremors or muscle twitches.  On top of these basic effects, cocaine abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular consequences , including heart attacks; and neurological issues, including headaches, strokes, seizures, and sometimes coma. 6 When people use cocaine, they find that the sought-after euphoric effects seem to diminish over time, leading to an escalating use pattern that can have problematic results, including overdose.  Typical Overdose Symptoms   Listen to the Let's Talk Drugs Podcast   Let’s Talk Drugs is a new podcast that tackles common myths and themes about drugs and alcohol using the latest research and a sharp eye toward what’s really affecting people today. Read More    Cocaine abuse results in powerful stimulant effects. When taken in high doses, a person can lethally overstimulate their body and brain. This is known as a cocaine overdose. During an overdose, a cocaine user may experience the amplification of cocaine’s usual effects, such as increased heart rate and body temperature. Experiencing these extreme stimulant effects can lead to the failure of a number of organ systems and physiologic functions—causing the body or brain to shut down, and sometimes resulting in death.  Typical signs of a cocaine overdose include: 7  Dangerously high blood pressure.  Irregular heart rate.  Extremely high body temperature.  Extreme anxiety or confusion.  Psychosis.  Nausea.  Agitation or tremors.  These symptoms may precede the onset of a fatal heart attack, stroke, or seizure. Overdose death following cocaine use is generally the result of dangerous overstimulation, and the best way to prevent overdose death is to get treatment for cocaine abuse right away.    Sponsor    Desert Cove Recovery  15170 N. Hayden Road Suite 4  Scottsdale, Arizona 85260      Sponsor    Above All Recovery Center  3550 Powerline Rd  Oakland Park, Florida 33309      Sponsor    Behavioral Rehabilitation Services  355 W Mannsiding Rd  Harrison, Michigan 48625      Sponsor    Recovery Unplugged  915 Middle River Drive Suite 114  Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33304     Treatment  If you suspect that someone may be experiencing a cocaine overdose, it is vital that you call 911 right away. Immediate professional medical help is the best option to improve a person’s chances of survival.   Once help is on the way, there are a few things you can do to help a person suffering from cocaine overdose:  If users have a seizure, make sure there is nothing nearby that they can hurt themselves on.  Get a cold compress and put it on them to help keep their body temperature down.  Stay with them until medical help arrives.  Once they are in emergency care, they will be monitored closely for heart complications, temperature problems, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric issues. 8 In some cases, benzodiazepines are necessary to help calm the patient down . 8  The best way to avoid cocaine overdose is to not do cocaine at all. For some people, this means getting help with an existing abuse problem. Professional substance abuse treatment can help a user recover from a cocaine addiction through therapy, relapse prevention training, addiction education, learning effective coping strategies, and providing a sober network of support.    In 2016, Recovery Brands collected data that asked people leaving a treatment facility what clinic aspects they believed to be vital things to take into account when looking for treatment. At the top of the list was the program’s financial practices, such as payment options, insurance accepted, and financial support. They also valued the clinic’s offerings (extra activities, amenities, recreational options) a lot more after treatment. If you are new to treatment, you may want to examine a clinic’s payment policies, as well as clinic offerings, to inform your decision. Sources  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality (CBHSQ). Behavioral Health Trends in the United States: Results from the 2014 National Survey on Drug Use and Health . Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; 2015. HHS Publication No. SMA 15-4927, NSDUH Series H-50.  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  Guha, P., Harraz, M. M., & Snyder, S. H. (2016). Cocaine elicits autophagic cytotoxicity via a nitric oxide-GAPDH signaling cascade . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113 (5), 1417-1422.  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2016). What are the short-term effects of cocaine use?  Riezzo, I., Fiore, C., De Carlo, D., Pascale, N., Neri, M., Turillazzi, E., & Fineschi, V. (2012). Side effects of cocaine abuse: multiorgan toxicity and pathological consequences . Current Medicinal Chemistry , 19 (33). 5624-5646.  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .         Return to Top       Resources          Find Treatment in the Top States    California    Colorado    Florida    Georgia    Illinois    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    New York        Top 10 US Cities    Austin    Charlotte    Chicago    Columbus    Fort Worth    Houston    Indianapolis    Jacksonville    Los Angeles    Memphis        Connect with Top Treatment Centers Now    Call us toll free  1-888-287-0471  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers   Who Answers?     Request a free assessment  Free Assessment              Find A Facility Near You      Search by State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming     Cocaine     Addiction    Detox and Withdrawal    Cocaine Overdose    Alcohol and Drugs     Alcohol    Cocaine    Crack Cocaine    Crystal Meth    Ecstasy and MDMA    GHB    Hash    Heroin    Inhalant    Ketamine    LSD    Marijuana    Mescaline    Methamphetamine    Mushrooms    Opium    PCP    Peyote    Speed    Steroids    New and Designer Drugs     Other Local Clinics & Services     Intervention    Detox    Rehab    Sober Living       Call Today  Whether you need to find addiction treatment close to home or want to get clean start in a new environment, we can help.  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?        Call Today  1-888-287-0471   Who Answers?        Commonly Abused Drugs    Alcohol    Cocaine    Crack Cocaine    Crystal Meth    Ecstasy & MDMA    Heroin    Marijuana    New and Designer Drugs      Behavioral Disorders    Eating Disorders    Gambling Addiction    Internet Addiction    Video Game Addiction        Prescription Drug Abuse    Prescription Drugs by Type    Amphetamine    Buprenorphine    Clonazepam    Codeine    Diazepam    Fentanyl    Hydrocodone    Lorazepam    Methadone    Methamphetamine    Morphine    Oxycodone    Tramadol    Zolpidem        Substance Abuse Help    Do I Drink Too Much?    Am I Addicted to Drugs?    How to Help an Addict or Alcoholic      Recent Articles    Violence Prevention    Behavioral Health Hotlines    Alcohol and Drug Rehab Hotlines      ProjectKnow.com Blog    Statistics      Struggling with Addiction?  Contact us today and let us get you on the right track.  You're Not Alone. Call Today   1-888-287-0471   Get in Touch Right Now   Who Answers?          Home    Addiction Treatment    Alcohol & Drugs    Prescription Drugs    Behavioral Health    Substance Abuse Help    Resources    Treatment Options    About Us        Project Know is a property of Sober Media Group.    Privacy Policy    Terms of Service    © Project Know 2018. All Rights Reserved.             How Our Help Line Works  If you’re seeking addiction treatment for yourself or a loved one, our ProjectKnow.com help line is a private and convenient solution. Caring advisors are available 24/7 to discuss treatment options with you.  Calls to any general help line (non-facility specific 1-8XX numbers) found on this site will be answered between the hours of 5:00am and 9:00pm Pacific by American Addiction Centers (AAC) and outside of those hours by one of our paid treatment center sponsors.  You can connect with non-sponsor facilities by browsing our listings and calling them directly.                                  GENERAL INFORMATION    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      DRUG EFFECTS    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        GET HELP    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      SIGNS OF DRUG ABUSE    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol          Sections        General Information    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      Drug Effects    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        Get Help    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      Signs of Drug Abuse    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol      Blog    Forums    Directory    Overcome Your Addition Get Help Now.    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?           Browse Featured Rehabs         Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.  Porter, TX   5.0  Excellent  (1 review)          SpringBoard Recovery  Scottsdale, AZ   4.9  Excellent  (15 reviews)          Pathfinders Recovery Center  Lakewood, CO                Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Cocaine Overdose   Authored By Lauren Brande, MA    Table of Contents Print Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose Preventing Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine is a powerful stimulant drug and is capable of eliciting a number of pronounced, and often dangerous, effects throughout the user’s brain and body. It is found in powder form, which can be snorted, smoked, injected, or orally ingested; or rock form – also known as crack cocaine – which is almost always smoked 1 .  Because its effects come on relatively quickly and result in a euphoric, energetic high, many users fall into a dangerous pattern of escalating abuse. In 2014 alone, more than 5,500 people died from cocaine overdose 2 . Knowing the risks and symptoms of cocaine overdose may help save a life.    Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose  When a person abuses cocaine, their body experiences a number of sensations and physiologic changes, all relating back to its strong stimulant effects. These effects can spiral out of control when a person uses too much, leading to an overdose. During a cocaine overdose, the brain and body become dangerously overstimulated—resulting in a situation wherein commonly experienced cocaine effects, such as increased heart rate, are elevated to potentially lethal levels.    Arrhythmias (irregular heart rhythm).  Severe tachycardia (elevated heart rate).  Very high blood pressure.  Dangerously high body temperature.  Sweating.  Nausea.  Confusion.  Severe anxiety or agitation.  Psychosis.  Tremors.  Seizures.  Stroke.  The likelihood of an overdose is difficult to predict, as it can be influenced by a number of variables, including the purity of the sample, the method in which it is used, and the general health of the user. Make no mistake, though, even first-time users can die for cocaine overdose 1 .     One call could save your life. Call 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? today and begin your recovery.         1-888-744-0069   Treatment Advisors Are On Call 24/7   Who Answers?    Thinking About Getting Rehab?         Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine overdose can happen to anyone from a novice user to a regular abuser. If you take too much of a substance, the consequences can be dire. Though it may appear obvious, using cocaine at all is the biggest risk factor for cocaine overdose , and the best way to prevent overdose is to stop using cocaine .  Combining cocaine with other substances is also a major risk factor for overdose. When used with sedating or depressant drugs, cocaine’s stimulant effects may seem diminished, leading the user to more easily ingest toxic levels of each substance without fully realizing the extent of their intoxication. Combining cocaine with another stimulant like Ritalin may compound the stimulant effects, potentially leading to lethal consequences.  Cocaine is particularly dangerous to use with alcohol , as the combination produces a powerful toxin in the body called cocaethylene. Cocaethylene is eliminated even slower from the body than cocaine and can intensify the cardiotoxic effects, for example by further increasing the heart rate and enhancing the concentration of cocaine in the bloodstream 4 .  Another specific combination that can quickly be fatal is that of cocaine and heroin , also known as a “speedball.” Both of these substances have very powerful opposing effects, which may cause the subjective effects of each drug seem less intense. This can lead the user to take very high or unpredictable doses, thereby increasing their risk of lethal overdose 5 .  Finally, as a person uses cocaine, they begin to build up a tolerance to its effects. As tolerance increases, the user will need to continually increase the dose in order to counteract it and get “high.” Doing so is a major risk factor for eventual overdose.     What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose  If you notice the signs and symptoms of cocaine overdose in yourself or someone else,  call 911 right away to get emergency medical help .  Cocaine overdose death can happen relatively quickly, so the faster you get the person medical attention, the better the chances of survival.  While you are waiting for professional medical help, there are a couple things you can do to help a person experiencing cocaine overdose:   Apply a cold compress to keep their body temperature at a safe level.  If the person is experiencing a seizure, make sure there is nothing around them that can injure them, such as sharp edges or hard objects.  Most importantly, stay with the person until medical help arrives.   Once in the care of emergency personnel, the individual will be monitored for body temperature, cardiac complications, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric complications. When appropriate, benzodiazepines may be used in order to calm the patient and mitigate psychological distress 6 .  Preventing Cocaine Overdose The only sure way to prevent cocaine overdose is to stop using cocaine. Those who continue to use it will notice that their cocaine tolerance builds quickly. As tolerance mounts, people often begin to exhibit binge patterns of use, which can further solidify a developing addiction and, furthermore, greatly increase their risk of overdose. Getting help with a cocaine abuse problem may be the difference between life and death.  Treatment for cocaine abuse will help users identify the thought patterns and behaviors that trigger their use and practical methods to help resist the urge to use. It can also help a person examine their own personal reasons for turning to cocaine abuse and how they can practice healthy coping strategies for future relapse temptations. Call us today at 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? to find quality treatment for cocaine abuse for yourself or a loved one-it’s never too late to get help. References:  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  McCance, E. F., Price, L. H., Kosten, T. R., & Jatlow, P. I. (1995). Cocaethylene: pharmacology, physiology and behavioral effects in humans . The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 274 (1). 215-223.  Ochoa, K. C., Hahn, J. A., Seal, K. H., & Moss, A. R. (2001). Overdosing among young injection drug users in San Francisco . Addictive Behaviors, 26 . 453-460.  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .   Related Posts: Why Isn’t Anyone Talking About a Resurgence of Cocaine A Look at the Physical Anatomy of an Overdose Meet Cocaine and Her Wicked Step-Child, Crack 3 Devastatingly Dangerous Alcohol-Drug Combos Warning: 3 Dangerous Suboxone Interactions to Avoid Cocaine Could Mess With Your Brain’s Ability to Recognize…      A Better Today Recovery Services      1122 NE 122nd Ave.   Portland , OR  97230        Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.      4107 Acorn Ln   Porter , TX  77365        AToN Center      3250 Country Rose Circle   San Diego , CA  92024        Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?     It's not too late to turn your life around...   Learn More      I Want To Learn About:     Alcohol Intervention Programs    Drug Intervention Programs    Get the Facts on Alcohol Abuse    Get the Facts on Substance Abuse           Use Our New Directory To Find Treatment Today  Search     Overcome Your Addiction   Get Help Now.   1-888-744-0069   Who Answers?  Connect to a treatment center.  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers        Recent Posts     Let’s Talk About the Dark Side of Suboxone       New Drug Testing Technology Makes Urine Samples a Thing of the Past       Fentanyl: The Newest Lethal Injection Ingredient            Need Help Overcoming Addiction?    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?        Search By State  Select a State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    District Of Columbia    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming       Need Help Finding Treatment?                © DrugAbuse.com 2018. All Rights Reserved   Privacy Policy  Terms of Service   DrugAbuse.com is a property of Sober Media Group      You're Ready to Escape Addiction    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?              Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?    Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?           Name:         Email:         Phone Number:         I Am:     ---  The Addicted Person  A Family Member  A Friend  A Co-Worker  A Doctor/Therapist  Other       Ability to Finance:     ---  There is Ample Money or Private Insurance  There is Some Money or Private Insurance  There is No Money or Private Insurance  I Am Interested in Financing  I Am Not Sure       Addiction(s):     ---  Alcohol  Illicit (Street) Drugs  Prescription Drugs  A Combination of Substances  Other Addiction       Any Other Important Details:          I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .    SEND   Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Ratione ipsa excepturi quae cum magnam quibusdam quos quam pariatur, libero veritatis aut harum, laborum similique optio natus, nulla possimus necessitatibus soluta!     Your information will be provided to a leading treatment center who is a paid sponsor of DrugAbuse.com and who can help answer your questions about addiction treatment options.       About the DrugAbuse.com Toll-Free Helpline and Directory  Each year, the DrugAbuse.com hotline connects thousands of people with substance abuse treatment programs throughout the U.S. toll-free. Calls are answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) who have treatment support specialists available 24/7, 365 days a year.  Both our treatment directory and our hotline are offered at no cost to you.  Where Else Can I Find Help?   National Hotlines:   SAMHSA Facility Locator - http://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/index.html 1-800-662-HELP (4357)	Free and confidential information in English and Spanish for individuals and family members facing substance abuse and mental health issues. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Suicide Prevention Lifeline - http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ 1-800-273-TALK (8255)	24-hour, toll-free, confidential suicide prevention hotline available to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress. Your call is routed to the nearest crisis center in the national network of more than 150 crisis centers.  American Association of Poison Control Centers - http://www.aapcc.org/ For a poisoning emergency in the U.S. call 1-800-222-1222	The American Association of Poison Control Centers supports the nation’s 55 poison centers in their efforts to prevent and treat poison exposures. Poison centers offer free, confidential medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week   Nonprofit Treatment Centers:   Betty Ford Center - http://www.bettyfordcenter.org/index.php   Phoenix House - http://www.phoenixhouse.org/   Caron - http://www.caron.org/   Odyssey House - http://www.odysseyhouse.org/   Recovery Gateway - http://recovergateway.org/   Dawn Farm - http://dawnfarm.org/   Austin Recovery - http://www.austinrecovery.org/    Recovery Programs:   Alcoholics Anonymous - http://www.aa.org/   Narcotics Anonymous - http://www.na.org/   Smart Recovery - http://www.smartrecovery.org/       Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?   Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Select your state and then choose Alcohol Treatment or Drug Treatment   Please choose a state  Alabama  Alaska  Arizona  Arkansas  California  Colorado  Connecticut  Delaware  Florida  Georgia  Hawaii  Idaho  Illinois  Indiana  Iowa  Kansas  Kentucky  Louisiana  Maine  Maryland  Massachusetts  Michigan  Minnesota  Mississippi  Missouri  Montana  Nevada  New Hampshire  New Jersey  New Mexico  New York  North Carolina  North Dakota  Ohio  Oklahoma  Oregon  Pennsylvania  Rhode Island  South Carolina  South Dakota  Tennessee  Texas  Utah  Vermont  Virginia  Washington  West Virginia  Wisconsin  Wyoming    Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment                              GENERAL INFORMATION    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      DRUG EFFECTS    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        GET HELP    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      SIGNS OF DRUG ABUSE    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol          Sections        General Information    Facts and Information    Browse by Drug    Media    Infographics, Videos, and More    Featured Media      Expert Guides    Frequently Asked Questions    Substance Abuse FAQs    Intervention FAQs    Painkiller FAQs    Detox FAQs    Finding Help FAQs      Why Are Drugs So Addictive?    Alcohol    Amphetamine    Cocaine    Crack    Heroin    Methamphetamine    Opiates    Painkillers    Prescription Drugs    Tramadol    Xanax      Addiction Stigma    Are You an Enabler?    Famous Drug Abusers    Workplace Drug Abuse    Teen Drug Abuse      Drug Effects    Effects of Drugs    Drug Withdrawal    Overdose    Drugs and Pregnancy    Cocaine and Pregnancy    Drinking while Pregnant    Heroin and Pregnancy    Marijuana and Pregnancy    MDMA and Pregnancy    Meth and Pregnancy    Painkillers and Pregnancy    Smoking while Pregnant        Get Help    Find Help Now    Screening: Are You Addicted?    Hotlines    Treatment Types    Inpatient Treatment    Outpatient Treatment    Aftercare    Addiction Therapies      5 Signs You Need Rehab Now    Help a Loved One      Signs of Drug Abuse    Signs and Symptoms    Mixing Drugs and Alcohol      Blog    Forums    Directory    Overcome Your Addition Get Help Now.    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?           Browse Featured Rehabs         Westbridge Recovery Center, Inc.  Porter, TX   5.0  Excellent  (1 review)          SpringBoard Recovery  Scottsdale, AZ   4.9  Excellent  (15 reviews)          Pathfinders Recovery Center  Lakewood, CO                Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Cocaine Overdose   Authored By Lauren Brande, MA    Table of Contents Print Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose Preventing Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine is a powerful stimulant drug and is capable of eliciting a number of pronounced, and often dangerous, effects throughout the user’s brain and body. It is found in powder form, which can be snorted, smoked, injected, or orally ingested; or rock form – also known as crack cocaine – which is almost always smoked 1 .  Because its effects come on relatively quickly and result in a euphoric, energetic high, many users fall into a dangerous pattern of escalating abuse. In 2014 alone, more than 5,500 people died from cocaine overdose 2 . Knowing the risks and symptoms of cocaine overdose may help save a life.    Signs and Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose  When a person abuses cocaine, their body experiences a number of sensations and physiologic changes, all relating back to its strong stimulant effects. These effects can spiral out of control when a person uses too much, leading to an overdose. During a cocaine overdose, the brain and body become dangerously overstimulated—resulting in a situation wherein commonly experienced cocaine effects, such as increased heart rate, are elevated to potentially lethal levels.    Arrhythmias (irregular heart rhythm).  Severe tachycardia (elevated heart rate).  Very high blood pressure.  Dangerously high body temperature.  Sweating.  Nausea.  Confusion.  Severe anxiety or agitation.  Psychosis.  Tremors.  Seizures.  Stroke.  The likelihood of an overdose is difficult to predict, as it can be influenced by a number of variables, including the purity of the sample, the method in which it is used, and the general health of the user. Make no mistake, though, even first-time users can die for cocaine overdose 1 .     One call could save your life. Call 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? today and begin your recovery.         1-888-744-0069   Treatment Advisors Are On Call 24/7   Who Answers?    Thinking About Getting Rehab?         Risk Factors for Cocaine Overdose  Cocaine overdose can happen to anyone from a novice user to a regular abuser. If you take too much of a substance, the consequences can be dire. Though it may appear obvious, using cocaine at all is the biggest risk factor for cocaine overdose , and the best way to prevent overdose is to stop using cocaine .  Combining cocaine with other substances is also a major risk factor for overdose. When used with sedating or depressant drugs, cocaine’s stimulant effects may seem diminished, leading the user to more easily ingest toxic levels of each substance without fully realizing the extent of their intoxication. Combining cocaine with another stimulant like Ritalin may compound the stimulant effects, potentially leading to lethal consequences.  Cocaine is particularly dangerous to use with alcohol , as the combination produces a powerful toxin in the body called cocaethylene. Cocaethylene is eliminated even slower from the body than cocaine and can intensify the cardiotoxic effects, for example by further increasing the heart rate and enhancing the concentration of cocaine in the bloodstream 4 .  Another specific combination that can quickly be fatal is that of cocaine and heroin , also known as a “speedball.” Both of these substances have very powerful opposing effects, which may cause the subjective effects of each drug seem less intense. This can lead the user to take very high or unpredictable doses, thereby increasing their risk of lethal overdose 5 .  Finally, as a person uses cocaine, they begin to build up a tolerance to its effects. As tolerance increases, the user will need to continually increase the dose in order to counteract it and get “high.” Doing so is a major risk factor for eventual overdose.     What to Do in Case of Cocaine Overdose  If you notice the signs and symptoms of cocaine overdose in yourself or someone else,  call 911 right away to get emergency medical help .  Cocaine overdose death can happen relatively quickly, so the faster you get the person medical attention, the better the chances of survival.  While you are waiting for professional medical help, there are a couple things you can do to help a person experiencing cocaine overdose:   Apply a cold compress to keep their body temperature at a safe level.  If the person is experiencing a seizure, make sure there is nothing around them that can injure them, such as sharp edges or hard objects.  Most importantly, stay with the person until medical help arrives.   Once in the care of emergency personnel, the individual will be monitored for body temperature, cardiac complications, hypoglycemia, and neuropsychiatric complications. When appropriate, benzodiazepines may be used in order to calm the patient and mitigate psychological distress 6 .  Preventing Cocaine Overdose The only sure way to prevent cocaine overdose is to stop using cocaine. Those who continue to use it will notice that their cocaine tolerance builds quickly. As tolerance mounts, people often begin to exhibit binge patterns of use, which can further solidify a developing addiction and, furthermore, greatly increase their risk of overdose. Getting help with a cocaine abuse problem may be the difference between life and death.  Treatment for cocaine abuse will help users identify the thought patterns and behaviors that trigger their use and practical methods to help resist the urge to use. It can also help a person examine their own personal reasons for turning to cocaine abuse and how they can practice healthy coping strategies for future relapse temptations. Call us today at 1-888-744-0069 Who Answers? to find quality treatment for cocaine abuse for yourself or a loved one-it’s never too late to get help. References:  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2013). DrugFacts: Cocaine .  National Institute on Drug Abuse. (2015). Overdose Death Rates .  U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2016). MedlinePlus: Cocaine intoxication .  McCance, E. F., Price, L. H., Kosten, T. R., & Jatlow, P. I. (1995). Cocaethylene: pharmacology, physiology and behavioral effects in humans . The Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 274 (1). 215-223.  Ochoa, K. C., Hahn, J. A., Seal, K. H., & Moss, A. R. (2001). Overdosing among young injection drug users in San Francisco . Addictive Behaviors, 26 . 453-460.  Medscape. (2016). Cocaine Toxicity Treatment & Management .   Related Posts: Why Isn’t Anyone Talking About a Resurgence of Cocaine A Look at the Physical Anatomy of an Overdose Meet Cocaine and Her Wicked Step-Child, Crack 3 Devastatingly Dangerous Alcohol-Drug Combos Warning: 3 Dangerous Suboxone Interactions to Avoid Cocaine Could Mess With Your Brain’s Ability to Recognize…      Bluff Plantation      963 Bennock Mill Rd   Augusta , GA  30906        Covenant Hills Treatment Center      32236 Paseo Adelanto, Sui...   San Juan Capistrano , CA  92629        California Highlands Addiction Treatment      300 S. Highland Springs A...   Banning , CA  92220        Need Help Understanding Your Addiction Treatment Options? Call  1-888-744-0069 .  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?     It's not too late to turn your life around...   Learn More      I Want To Learn About:     Alcohol Intervention Programs    Drug Intervention Programs    Get the Facts on Alcohol Abuse    Get the Facts on Substance Abuse           Use Our New Directory To Find Treatment Today  Search     Overcome Your Addiction   Get Help Now.   1-888-744-0069   Who Answers?  Connect to a treatment center.  Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers        Recent Posts     Let’s Talk About the Dark Side of Suboxone       New Drug Testing Technology Makes Urine Samples a Thing of the Past       Fentanyl: The Newest Lethal Injection Ingredient            Need Help Overcoming Addiction?    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?        Search By State  Select a State    Alabama    Alaska    Arizona    Arkansas    California    Colorado    Connecticut    Delaware    District Of Columbia    Florida    Georgia    Hawaii    Idaho    Illinois    Indiana    Iowa    Kansas    Kentucky    Louisiana    Maine    Maryland    Massachusetts    Michigan    Minnesota    Mississippi    Missouri    Montana    Nebraska    Nevada    New Hampshire    New Jersey    New Mexico    New York    North Carolina    North Dakota    Ohio    Oklahoma    Oregon    Pennsylvania    Rhode Island    South Carolina    South Dakota    Tennessee    Texas    Utah    Vermont    Virginia    Washington    West Virginia    Wisconsin    Wyoming       Need Help Finding Treatment?                © DrugAbuse.com 2018. All Rights Reserved   Privacy Policy  Terms of Service   DrugAbuse.com is a property of Sober Media Group      You're Ready to Escape Addiction    1-888-744-0069  Who Answers?              Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?    Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?           Name:         Email:         Phone Number:         I Am:     ---  The Addicted Person  A Family Member  A Friend  A Co-Worker  A Doctor/Therapist  Other       Ability to Finance:     ---  There is Ample Money or Private Insurance  There is Some Money or Private Insurance  There is No Money or Private Insurance  I Am Interested in Financing  I Am Not Sure       Addiction(s):     ---  Alcohol  Illicit (Street) Drugs  Prescription Drugs  A Combination of Substances  Other Addiction       Any Other Important Details:          I have read and agree to the conditions outlined in the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .    SEND   Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Ratione ipsa excepturi quae cum magnam quibusdam quos quam pariatur, libero veritatis aut harum, laborum similique optio natus, nulla possimus necessitatibus soluta!     Your information will be provided to a leading treatment center who is a paid sponsor of DrugAbuse.com and who can help answer your questions about addiction treatment options.       About the DrugAbuse.com Toll-Free Helpline and Directory  Each year, the DrugAbuse.com hotline connects thousands of people with substance abuse treatment programs throughout the U.S. toll-free. Calls are answered by American Addiction Centers (AAC) who have treatment support specialists available 24/7, 365 days a year.  Both our treatment directory and our hotline are offered at no cost to you.  Where Else Can I Find Help?   National Hotlines:   SAMHSA Facility Locator - http://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/index.html 1-800-662-HELP (4357)	Free and confidential information in English and Spanish for individuals and family members facing substance abuse and mental health issues. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Suicide Prevention Lifeline - http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ 1-800-273-TALK (8255)	24-hour, toll-free, confidential suicide prevention hotline available to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress. Your call is routed to the nearest crisis center in the national network of more than 150 crisis centers.  American Association of Poison Control Centers - http://www.aapcc.org/ For a poisoning emergency in the U.S. call 1-800-222-1222	The American Association of Poison Control Centers supports the nation’s 55 poison centers in their efforts to prevent and treat poison exposures. Poison centers offer free, confidential medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week   Nonprofit Treatment Centers:   Betty Ford Center - http://www.bettyfordcenter.org/index.php   Phoenix House - http://www.phoenixhouse.org/   Caron - http://www.caron.org/   Odyssey House - http://www.odysseyhouse.org/   Recovery Gateway - http://recovergateway.org/   Dawn Farm - http://dawnfarm.org/   Austin Recovery - http://www.austinrecovery.org/    Recovery Programs:   Alcoholics Anonymous - http://www.aa.org/   Narcotics Anonymous - http://www.na.org/   Smart Recovery - http://www.smartrecovery.org/       Ready for Drug or Alcohol Rehab?   Discuss Treatment Options Call Toll Free 24 Hours A Day Call Us Today! 1-888-744-0069   Sponsored by Leading Treatment Centers  Who Answers?    Select your state and then choose Alcohol Treatment or Drug Treatment   Please choose a state  Alabama  Alaska  Arizona  Arkansas  California  Colorado  Connecticut  Delaware  Florida  Georgia  Hawaii  Idaho  Illinois  Indiana  Iowa  Kansas  Kentucky  Louisiana  Maine  Maryland  Massachusetts  Michigan  Minnesota  Mississippi  Missouri  Montana  Nevada  New Hampshire  New Jersey  New Mexico  New York  North Carolina  North Dakota  Ohio  Oklahoma  Oregon  Pennsylvania  Rhode Island  South Carolina  South Dakota  Tennessee  Texas  Utah  Vermont  Virginia  Washington  West Virginia  Wisconsin  Wyoming    Drug Treatment  Alcohol Treatment              Ads from Google:                            Google ad      End of ad      Google Adsense ad        End of ads.         Independent expert answers on psychiatry and psychology        Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Abstract: Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine.               Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account                    MORE INFO  Addictions  ADHD  Anorexia  Anxiety, panic  Bulimia  Child care  Burnout  Depression  Healthy living  Instability  Life  Mood swings  Obesity  Personality  Phobia  Psychotherapy  Medicines  Relations  Sex  Sleep  Stress  Treatment   All answers  All categories  Tell a friend about Web4Health  This web site in other languages                 Independent medical expert answers on psychiatry and psychology     Is it Possible to Overdose by Sniffing Cocaine?      Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question  Info                                      Top   Discuss this  Get expert advice   Print           Question(s):    Written by: Wendy Moelker , Psychologist in charge, tutor, Emergis center for mental health care, Goes, the Netherlands.   First version: 22 Jul 2008. Latest revision: 22 Jul 2008.       Is it possible to overdose by sniffing cocaine?  Answer:    Sniffing cocaine can result in an overdose. It is called an overdose when the effects of the cocaine turn out badly or when the used dose is lethal. Both are possible when sniffing cocaine. When the effects of the cocaine turn out badly, the user feels restless, anxious and suspicious. Sometimes the user feels so suspicious that it can turn into paranoid delusions. For
example, users may be afraid that they are being followed.  However, an overdose can be worse and lead to heart and respiratory problems resulting in death, especially with intravenous use and smoking or basing cocaine. When cocaine is injected, death can follow very fast, even after only a few minutes. Smoking or basing can also have the same effects. Fortunately, a lethal overdose is fairly uncommon.  The causes of a fatal overdose are:    Disturbance of the heart and blood vessel system. An overdose can lead to a strong irregular functioning of the heart,
and eventually failure of the heart. It can cause high blood pressure, and as a result, bleeding in the brain leading to a greater possibility of death by brain hemorrhage.   Repeated convulsions , which can happen in such quick succession that consciousness cannot be restored.   Respiratory problems resulting in respiratory failure.   There are a lot of differences in toxic or deadly doses. Some users stay alive after using a few grams while others who are allergic to cocaine can die of a small dose. The exact amount of cocaine that causes an overdose varies from person to person and depends on a variety of factors including physical condition and possible diseases. Obviously, heart problems or a blood vessel disorder in the brain increase the risk of an overdose. The
combination of cocaine with other narcotics or alcohol can increase the risks as well. Therefore, it is difficult to determine a standard for a too high dosage, also because cocaine is often cut up.  In medical literature, there is a difference between a fatal and a lethal dose. A fatal dose causes death in 100% of the cases. A lethal dose causes death in 50% of the cases.  Some doctors estimate that 1.2 grams of cocaine, when used orally, and 750-800 milligrams, when used intravenously or by inhaling, is fatal.
It is unknown how much cocaine is fatal when sniffed. (Source: Cocaine Vraagbaak, Federatie van Instellingen voor Alcohol en Drugs, 1986). A user sniffs 0.1-0.2 grams of cocaine, i.e., 2-4 lines a night.  The average lethal dose of intravenous use of cocaine is about
500 milligrams. That doesn't mean, however that a smaller dose is
safe. An estimated lethal dose when sniffing cocaine is unknown. These doses are estimates.  It is important to act rationally and fast when someone has an overdose. When the user is anxious or restless, try to calm him down. Bring him to a quiet place and never react to his delusions. It will only make him more restless. Try to talk about something else. If you notice heart or respiratory problems, contact a doctor.        See more information         Intelligent natural language question-answering in the
area of psychology and psychiatry. Ask a simple question:   Info                         Google ad      End of ad     More Information  Is it possible to use cocaine in a sensible way?  Damaging physical smoking cocaine effects  The treatment of cocaine addiction  When the use of cocaine gets out of hand  More articles about cocaine, addiction and substance abuse          Sources, references                                                                                  Disclaimer: The documents
contained in this web site are presented for information
purposes only. The material is in no way intended to
replace professional medical care or attention by a
qualified psychiatrist or psychotherapist. It can not and should not be used
as a basis for diagnosis or choice of treatment. If you
find anything wrong, please notify us at .         To top of page                Home    Search    Categories    Discussion    Get expert advice    Unseen    Login/out    My account           Web4Health in other languages: Finnish  German  Greek  Italian  Polish  Russian  Swedish  add-cocaine-overdose  Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health   Copyright 2003-2017 Web4Health. Web4Health was selected as finalist for the 2008 Stockholm Challenge Award                       Non-Google/Clickviper Ads:  Translate Web4Health  We seek voluntary translators who are interested in translating Web4Health
to new languages. We can provide the servers, and pay you 50 % of the
income from ads on pages, which you have translated. We are especially interested
in translators from German To English, From German, Swedish or English to
French, Spanish, Italian, Greek, Finnish, Polish, Farsi, Russian.  web4health.info/en/tr/   Advertise here  Reach 300 000 visitors reading one million pages for a cost of 600 US $/month.  /en/ad/                                                                          (888) 966-8152  Ready to get help? Our Treatment Consultants are available 24/7.         Live Chat            Fill out the form below to email us. * Indicates required field              What can we help you with?                      By submitting this form you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the website.                     Press "Enter" to search       Treatment Services   Drug Addiction Treatment Programs  Dual Diagnosis Treatment Curriculum  Systemic Family Intervention Program  Drug Recovery – Aftercare  Fire Services  Law Enforcement  Veterans & their Families    Treatment Centers   River Oaks Treatment Center  Greenhouse  Desert Hope  San Diego Addiction Treatment Center  Clinical Services of Rhode Island (CSRI)  Laguna Treatment Hospital  Oxford Treatment Center  Sunrise House  Recovery First  Resolutions – Sober Living  Solutions Recovery  Townsend Treatment Centers    Admissions   Sample Schedule  Payment Options  What To Bring  Alcohol and Drug Addiction Intervention Help  Addiction Disease    About Us   Client Outcomes Study  Media  Brochures  Investor Relations  Academic Scholarship  Events  FAQs  Contact Us  Why AAC?    Rehab   12-Step Model  Alcohol Rehab  Detox Centers  Effective Programs  Evidence-based  Finding the Best Center  Insurance Coverage  LGBT and Gay-friendly  Residential  Co-Occurring Disorders   Behavioral Addictions  Depression  Eating Disorders  Eating Disorders in Males  PTSD    Featured Content   Binge Eating Recovery Guide  Guide to Teen Treatment Options  Substance Abuse & HIV/AIDS  Treatment of Firefighters & First Responders  Treatment Resources for Veterans    Blog    Detox   Ambien  Alcohol  Alprazolam / Xanax  Buprenorphine / Suboxone  Clonazepam / Klonopin  Cocaine  Hydrocodone  Opiates Overview  OxyContin  Tramadol  Vicodin    Addiction   Alcoholism  Amphetamine  Ativan  Barbiturate  Benzodiazepines  Cocaine  Fentanyl  Heroin  Inhalants Abuse  Kratom  Marijuana  Medications Used  Meth  Morphine  OxyContin  Prescription Drugs   Ambien Addiction – Treatment, Signs and Risks  Drug Classifications    Suboxone  Valium  Xanax    Reviews  Careers     Our Community   Alumni  Treatment Professionals    MENU       Press "Enter" to search   Home  Facilities   Greenhouse Treatment Center  Desert Hope Treatment Center  San Diego Addiction Treatment Center  Clinical Services of Rhode Island (CSRI)  River Oaks Treatment Center  Oxford Treatment Center  Sunrise House Treatment Center  Recovery First Treatment Center  Solutions Recovery  Townsend Treatment Centers  Laguna Treatment Hospital    Services   Drug Addiction Treatment Programs  Dual Diagnosis Treatment Curriculum  Systemic Family Intervention Program  Drug Recovery – Aftercare  Fire Services  Law Enforcement    Blog   Facts for Parents and Teens  Current Events  Greenhouse  Desert Hope  Recovery Alumni Resources  First Responders    Rehab Resources   Addiction Treatment  Co-Occurring Disorders  Behavioral Addictions  Drug Withdrawal  Finding an Eating Disorder Treatment Center  Client Outcomes Study    Treatment Professionals  Investor Relations  Contact Us    100% Confidential - Insurance Accepted (888) 966-8152            Cocaine Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers        Home Cocaine Addiction and Treatment Cocaine Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers       One of the most infamous drugs in the world, cocaine is a powerful stimulant that can be highly addictive . Synthesized from the coca plant, a plant native to South America, cocaine is popular throughout the globe due to some of the short-term effects that accompany its use.      Cocaine can bring on feelings of euphoria, foster increased alertness in the user, and result in hypersensitivity to outside stimuli. While there can be both negative psychological and physical effects in the short-term, as well as long-term consequences, the most immediate danger associated with cocaine is overdose.  According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), cocaine overdose is brought on by a person taking enough of the drug for it to reach toxic levels in their system, causing a serious reaction within the body. Essentially, cocaine can poison the system, and toxic levels do not appear to be completely dictated by dosage. According to the University of Arizona , there have been cases of overdose from a few hundred milligrams, while some users can ingest several grams of cocaine without overdosing. This suggests that overdose toxicity can depend largely on the individual user and their specific susceptibility to the toxins.     Potency of the drug is also known to vary greatly, as cocaine in its street drug form is often mixed or “cut” with other materials in order to increase profits for dealers. This means that the potency of one gram of cocaine from one source can be significantly different from one gram of the drug from another source.    For a time, especially in the early portion of the 1980s, cocaine was not generally seen as a harmful drug but simply one that created positive short-term effects. However, as overdoses became more common, word got out that cocaine could be extremely dangerous. The overdose and death of basketball star Len Bias, an athlete that seemed almost superhuman, was a glaring example of the perils of cocaine use.   Symptoms of an Overdose  Cocaine causes the heart rate of a user to increase, which can result in heart problems. Elevated blood pressure is also common, another factor that can lead to serious health complications. Physical symptoms of cocaine overdose include but are not limited to:     Elevated heart rate  Rise in body temperature  Nausea and vomiting      Pain in the chest  Tremors     Some psychological symptoms of a cocaine overdose include:     Panicked feelings  Anxiety      Delirium  Paranoia     Dangers of an Overdose  It’s extremely important for those present to recognize any potential indicators of an overdose, as time is a crucial factor in such a situation. Cocaine is one of the more serious stimulants available, mainly because of the potential for overdose leading to death, which can occur due to a multitude of complications, including heart attack, seizure and stroke.     According to NIDA , cocaine-related death totals have seen significant fluctuation in the last decade or so. In 2006, there were more than 7,000 cocaine-related deaths in the nation, the highest number in the last 15 years. The totals steadily declined following that year, bottoming out around 4,000 in 2010. However, since 2010, cocaine-related deaths have been on the rise again. In 2015, there was a 1.6-fold increase in deaths from 2010, the highest rate since 2006. As far as gender is concerned, these statistics show that males are much more likely to overdose on cocaine than females, averaging an approximate 3:1 ratio of male to female.    Polydrug use in cocaine overdoses is common, especially in overdoses resulting in death. Opioids, a drug group that includes prescription painkillers, are associated with a large number of cocaine deaths every year. It’s a trend that is on the rise as well, according to NIDA. In 2010, the numbers of cocaine overdose deaths involving opioids and those not involving opioids were essentially equal. By 2015, the number of annual cocaine overdose deaths involving opioids had more than doubled, while overdose deaths not involving the use of opioids had increased at a much less significant rate. This implies that not only is polydrug use with cocaine increasing, but it’s also becoming more fatal.  While death is certainly the most drastic of the consequences of cocaine overdose, it is not the only one. A heart attack, stroke, or seizure brought on by an overdose can do significant damage to the human body without resulting in death.  Recognizing the symptoms of cocaine use can be a good tool for overdose prevention. As noted earlier, the potential for potency differences in batches of cocaine means even a casual user runs the risk of overdose. Narconon notes the following physical and psychological symptoms of cocaine use:     Nose constantly running  Frequent nosebleeds      Dilated pupils  Unusual level of excitement  Overconfidence      Paranoia  Increased aggression     Symptoms that are often present following prolonged use or bingeing include:      Agitated behavior  Depression      Apathetic attitude  Excessive sleeping     While casual users are in danger, the risk of overdose increases dramatically for more serious users. Those with an addiction to the drug often take it in binges, ingesting a large amount of the substance in a short period of time. According to NIDA , short-term effects from this type of use can be drastic. A user’s heart rate can be disturbed, which can lead to the aforementioned heart attack risk. Serious neurological effects ranging all the way from headaches to coma are possible as well. Cocaine users can also experience gastrointestinal problems.   In cases of polydrug use featuring a combination of cocaine and alcohol, the heart is put in grave danger due to the toxicity of the cocktail being heightened by the mixture. Polydrug use of cocaine and heroin, sometimes referred to as a “speedball,” can be extremely hazardous as well.  Long-term effects of cocaine can also be drastic. Abusers of cocaine will often experience an increase in tolerance, meaning that larger quantities of the drug need to be consumed in order to achieve the same effects that were achieved before the tolerance increase. Long-term psychological effects are common, ranging from irritability all the way to psychosis. In extreme cases, a user can completely lose their connection to reality and even experience hallucinations.      Long-term physical effects vary, depending on the method of consumption. Cocaine commonly comes in the form of a fine white powder, and the most popular ingestion method is snorting it through the nose. The act of snorting the substance results in the effects of the drug being felt quickly after consumption, but over time, it can lead to various issues, such as nosebleeds, loss of the sense of smell, and difficulty swallowing.  Crack, another popular form of cocaine, is found in the form of a crystal rock, and it is usually smoked. This can do damage to the lungs. Taking cocaine intravenously increases the risk of contracting diseases commonly associated with sharing needles, such as hepatitis C and HIV. Internal damage is also possible with long-term cocaine use. The gastrointestinal tract can be damaged by a lack of blood flow, and heart tissue can become inflamed or ruptured. The brain is also very susceptible to the effects of cocaine. The expansion of cerebral blood vessels and cerebral bleeding are some of the neurological issues that arise with long-term abuse. Parkinson’s disease, a condition that affects movement and can bring on tremors, can also be an effect of cocaine use. Over time, cocaine use can have negative effects on basic brain function, such as decision-making, memory, and motor functions. It’s clear that even if a user survives long-term cocaine abuse, there are other major health concerns that can crop up. In the Event of an Overdose If you suspect a cocaine overdose, the first thing to do is call 911, as the situation demands professional medical assistance. If the user is having a seizure, it is important to keep them away from any objects that might injure them due to their body movement. A cold compress can be useful in helping to decrease body temperature.  In the event that a cocaine user survives an overdose, getting them into a treatment program is crucial. According to the Foundation for a Drug-Free World , cocaine use is high among those ages 18 to 25. This means that young people are putting themselves at risk for major health problems and even death due to overdose. Getting someone help before an overdose is obviously ideal, and there are effective treatment methods available to those in need. Behavioral therapies have proven to be useful in treating cocaine addiction. Contingency Management , an incentive-based program has shown to be effective in rewarding those in recovery for abstaining from drug use. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is useful in helping clients avoid relapse by developing new skills to cope with situations and triggers that could lead to cocaine use. Therapeutic communities and comprehensive treatment facilities foster recovery in an immersive environment, which can be crucial in the vulnerable stages of early recovery. Overall, there are plenty of options available to help those struggling with cocaine abuse and addiction. Getting professional help as soon as possible is the best way to prevent a cocaine overdose; it can mean the difference between life and death.        We're Here For You  Call Anytime   (888) 966-8152   Consultants available 24/7        Explore:   Cocaine Addiction and Treatment    Overdose: Symptoms and Dangers  Withdrawal Symptoms, Timeline and Treatment Crack Addiction: Signs, Symptoms, and Treatment Dangers of Use in Pregnancy Dangers of Snorting, Smoking, or Injecting Cocaine Differences between Crack & Cocaine How to Help an Addict How Long Does It Stay in Your System? Is Cocaine Physically Addictive? Is It Physically Addictive? Long-Term Side Effects of Abuse Mixing Cocaine and Alcohol: Effects and Dangers Signs of Abuse Slang and Nicknames Symptoms of Addiction, Use, and Abuse The Long-Term Effects on Mind and Body The Risks of Addiction What Are the Effects on the Brain? What Is It Cut With? What You Need to Know about Freebasing  Back To:   Cocaine Addiction and Treatment          Loved One in Need of an Intervention?    See Our Intervention Program                Top     Start The Admissions Process Now     Free.  Your 1-on-1 consultation and Insurance Verification are 100% Free        Easy.  All you have to do is pick up the phone and call or chat now        Confidential.  We will never share your information with a third party without your explicit consent       Call Now (888) 966-8152        AAC's family of addiction treatment facilities includes programs that meet the standards of excellence for CARF Three-Year Accreditations, Joint Commission Accreditation, and COLA (Addiction Labs).  Our CARF Accredited Facilities  CARF has accredited American Addiction Centers for the following:   San Diego , California  Singer Island , Florida  River Oaks Treatment Center , Florida  Desert Hope , Nevada  Clinical Services of Rhode Island , Rhode Island  Greenhouse , Texas  Sunrise House , New Jersey  Oxford Treatment Center , Mississippi   More info on carf.org        Notice of Privacy Practices  Online Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Brand Promise Details  Careers  Contact Us      American Addiction Centers   (888) 966-8152  200 Powell Pl  Brentwood , TN  37027              Sign up to receive our email newsletters! *                  © 2018 American Addiction Centers      Confidential — Insurance Accepted  Call (888) 966-8152                        Contact Us   Insurance   Admissions   Teen Addiction  Search         352.771.2700   Recovery Is Possible Drug Addiction Drug Addiction Overview Commonly Abused Drugs Alcohol Cocaine Heroin Marijuana Meth Xanax Stimulants Adderall Amphetamines Bath Salts Crack Ecstasy, MDMA Spice, K2 Opioid/Opiates Codeine Fentanyl OxyContin Hydrocodone Dilaudid Lortab Kratom Morphine Oxycodone Vicodin Benzodiazepines Ativan Klonopin Valium Librium Prescription Drugs Percocet Methadone Ambien Tramadol Suboxone Subutex Narcan Ultram Fioricet Trazodone Drug Index Ayahuasca CBD (Cannabidiol) Kava Peyote    Can You Become Addicted to Heroin the First Time?     Dealing With the Issues of a High-Functioning Alcoholic     Alcohol Hotline     Drug Abuse Hotline    Need help? Call us today.  352.771.2700  Addiction Treatment Drug Addiction Treatment Alcoholism Treatment Medical Detox Inpatient Rehab Partial Hospitalization Intensive Outpatient Outpatient Rehab Aftercare Dual Diagnosis Understanding Treatment Drug Rehab Drug Detox Intervention Friends & Family Portal Our Treatment Philosophy Treatment Therapies Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Dialectical Behavioral Therapy Individual/Group Therapy Intensive Therapy Substance Abuse Treatment Centers and Rehab Substance Abuse Counseling Co-Occurring Disorders Anxiety Disorder Bipolar Disorder Borderline Personality Disorder Depression Eating Disorder Grief OCD PTSD    10 Tips to Help Family Members of Addicts Cope     10 Signs You Need To Seek Professional Help     Marijuana Hotline     Heroin Hotline    Need help? Call us today.  352.771.2700  Locations Locations Overview Nationwide Adult Rehab Centers The Recovery Village Umatilla (FL) Orlando Recovery Center (FL) The Recovery Village at Palmer Lake (CO) The Recovery Village Columbus (OH) The Recovery Village Ridgefield (WA) Specialty Rehab Centers Next Generation Village (FL) IAFF Recovery Center (MD) Aftercare Next Step Village (FL) Resources Sobriety Calculator Friends and Family Teen Addiction LGBTQ+ Addiction Domestic Violence Pet Adoption Cancer Patients Veterans Elderly Lawyers Treatment By State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Louisiana Kentucky Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Jersey New Hampshire New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Recovery Blog Insurance Contact Us Admissions  Search     Don't wait another day. Help is a phone call away.   352.771.2700  close  What To Expect Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns.    352.771.2700   Recovery Is Possible   Home   Cocaine Addiction   Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose?   Share Tweet +1 Share Shares 0 Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? Derived from the coca plant that grows in abundance in South America, cocaine is a highly addictive stimulant drug used recreationally across the globe. Cocaine, or the informal ‘coke’ or ‘blow,’ is characterized by its talc-like white powder, which is snorted or injected by users. Once put into the body, the drug acts on the brain’s pleasure centers to flood normal brain function with dopamine. Chasing and maintaining this euphoria puts cocaine users in peril of overdosing. Cocaine has always been considered a rich man’s drug due to its exorbitant street price. Its use is widespread, though, second only to alcohol when it comes to emergency hospital visits, exceeding 500,000 a year. Despite this, cocaine use and overdoses have mostly been on the decline in recent years. Many drug users cannot justify the return on investment of cost-per-high. Especially when other drugs such as opioids are so cheap and prevalent. Still, ever since opioid addiction and use in the United States has reached epidemic proportions, cocaine overdoses have begun to rise steadily once again. Users are more likely to mix the two, sometimes without even realizing it. In 2015 alone, some 7,000 overdose fatalities were attributed to cocaine, and the figures are expected to rise in correlation with opioid overdoses. Unlike some drugs, users can overdose on cocaine the first time they take it. With the threat of cocaine overdose always a possibility, here are the signs and symptoms to look out for when you or a loved one partakes in this deadly toxin. Speak to a Cocaine Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 What to expect when I call? Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7. Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 Symptoms of Cocaine Overdose In many circumstances, symptoms of a cocaine overdose mirror the effects of the drug itself. For example, cocaine is known to produce an energizing high, and an overdose amplifies this energy to the extreme. This can cause irritability, anxiety, exhilaration, depression, paranoia and more. Beyond these mood and movement symptoms, cocaine overdoses can be recognized by chest pain, elevated heart rate, twitching and headaches. Unfortunately, many of these symptoms go unacknowledged because the euphoria creates a façade of safety. And, if the likelihood of overdoses weren’t reason enough to worry, symptoms can lead to the onset of more permanent damage. Heart attacks are always a concern, as are strokes, seizures and comas. Cocaine Overdose Signs On the outside looking in, there are several identifiable signs that a cocaine user is verging on becoming an overdose victim. Some of these signs include but are not limited to: High blood pressure High body temperature Confusion to the point of apparent psychosis Agitated movements and restlessness Teeth grinding and chattering Talkativeness Unremitting energy Cocaine overdoses have a devastating effect on the human heart and cardiovascular system. If any or all of the above signs are present, it is imperative that the individual seek emergency medical care as soon as possible. How Much Cocaine to Overdose? As a party drug, cocaine overdoses usually happen two ways: either the user ingests too much to begin with, or they use more and more to maintain their high. Therein lies the substances’ true danger. The high itself almost never lasts for more than an hour, so users are inclined to use it incrementally. This, mixed with the fact that users do not realize the amount they’ve put into their bodies already, is a recipe for disaster. Just how much cocaine does it take to overdose? Well, the answer is up for some debate. Method of ingestion — orally, nasally or intravenously — plays a factor, as does the purity of the cocaine and the tolerance of the individual themselves. What we do know is that injecting the drug requires the least amount to produce a fatal reaction, with as little as 20 mg. For perspective, most individual doses range between 10 and 150 mg each. Mixing cocaine with other substances, particularly heroin or alcohol, only exacerbates the prospect of a fatal overdose. This is a common practice that should be avoided at all costs. Cocaine Overdose Treatment With rapid response, cocaine overdoses can be reversed and the victim saved. Preemptive steps should be taken even before medical personnel arrive to give the person overdosing a fighting chance. To start, things like ice, wet towels and cool blankets can be used to lower the individual’s core body temperature and prevent excessive overheating. This cooling method will continue under medical supervision until treatment is no longer required, so beginning the process right away helps in the long run. Enough cannot be said about keeping the individual calm, too. The heart goes into overdrive during an overdose, so any mitigating efforts to lower heart rate are essential. Also, respiratory failure may occur due to the over-activeness of the cardiovascular system. Having the person overdosing focus on steady breathing is another must. How is Cocaine Overdose Treated? There is no special cocaine overdose antidote. Thus, medical intervention is reliant on treating the principal symptoms of the overdose. In a hospital setting, treatment often begins by giving the victim a sedative to lower their blood pressure and heart rate. Drugs such as benzodiazepines are used to accomplish this. Administering these medications also lessens the chance or heart attack or stroke. Following recovery, it is imperative that one avoids overdosing again in the long term. The immense stress an overdose puts on vital organs leaves them susceptible to future trauma and damage. Given cocaine’s highly addictive quality, often times this is easier said than done. Still, sometimes the best defense is preventative care. Seeking out the proper treatment efforts can put you or your family members on a path free of the fear of overdoses altogether. If you or a loved one is ready to break free from cocaine addiction and put overdose behind you, The Recovery Village is here to help. Our nationwide facilities provide high-quality, evidence-based care to those who need it most. Reach out today to take the first step toward healing. Intake coordinators are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to take your call. Cocaine Addiction Signs, Symptoms & Side Effects Withdrawal & Detox Cocaine Addiction Treatment & Rehab Have more questions about Cocaine abuse? Q. How Long Does Cocaine Stay in Your System? Q. How Harmful Is Cocaine to One’s Health? Q. How Do I Know If Someone Is On Cocaine? Q. Can You Mix Cocaine and Alcohol? Q. Does Cocaine Cause Anxiety? Read the most frequently asked questions See also Top 5 Risks of Cocaine Use and Abuse Cocaine Abuse Hotline How To Tell if Someone is High on Coke See more topics AI and Addiction Treatment: Using Social Networks for Recovery Support April 9, 2018  Search  Speak to a Cocaine Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700 What to expect when I call? Seeking addiction treatment can feel overwhelming. We know the struggle, which is why we're uniquely qualified to help. Your call is confidential, and there's no pressure to commit to treatment until you're ready. As a voluntary facility, we're here to help you heal -- on your terms. Our sole focus is getting you back to the healthy, sober life you deserve, and we are ready and waiting to answer your questions or concerns 24/7. Speak with an Intake Coordination Specialist now. 352.771.2700  Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? How Would You Rate This Page? Cocaine Overdose | Signs, Treatment & How Much Cocaine to Overdose? was last modified: November 30th, 2017 by The Recovery Village Share Tweet +1 Share Shares 0 Latest Related Posts: Cocaine Treatment & Rehab Top 5 Risks of Cocaine Use and Abuse Cocaine Hotline Cocaine Withdrawal & Detox Cocaine Abuse: Side Effects, Signs and Symptoms Cocaine Addiction FAQ Cocaine Addiction Related Topics How Do I Know If Someone Is On Cocaine Ready to start?  We're here for you.  352.771.2700      The Recovery Village 633 Umatilla Blvd.  Umatilla , FL  32784  (352) 771-2700 US 47-2809995 | NAICS 623220 About Us About Staff Philosophy Newsletter Careers Get Started Admissions Insurance Locations Contact Us Legal Notice Of Privacy Practices Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy © echo date(Y);? The Recovery Village at Umatilla All Rights Reserved.   Call our Toll-Free Hotline 24/7 352.771.2700     Your browser does not support iframes.  Insurance Calculator  Your browser does not support iframes.  Insurance Calculator                   