                          search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       A Burial Pod That Safely Decomposes Bodies Beneath Trees                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                                                                                                     Premium    News    Politics    World    Sport    Technology    Business    Money    Opinion    Travel    Culture    TV Guide    Lifestyle    Fashion    Luxury    Cars    Obituaries    Video             Free Mobile App    Jobs    Financial Solutions    Rewards    Events    Dating    Offers    Shop    Garden Shop    Bookshop    Box Office    Puzzles    Fantasy Football    Work at The Telegraph    Telegraph Corporate                       Search      Video      Rewards           Upgrade to Premium                   My Account                           My details                        My newsletters           Logout         Upgrade to Premium                 Search      Video      Rewards           Subscribe - 30 days free                   Login              Register                  Search      Video      Rewards             My Account                           My details                        My newsletters           Logout                       Home    News    Sport    Business           ALL SECTIONS           Travel       Advice                 Destinations    Hotels    Offers    Holiday types    City    Beach    Tours    Cruise    Ski    Family    Advice    Luxury    Book a trip    Travel Shows     More                Cancel      All  Features  Hotels  Tours     Destinations     Features     Hotels     Tours                      Telegraph    Travel    Advice                     2016 was the second safest year in aviation history                                                                                Plane crashes are widely reported - but there's never been a safer time to fly   Credit: Nikolai Sorokin - Fotolia              Oliver Smith ,  Digital Travel Editor       29 December 2016 • 10:45am        T he recent crashes of LaMia Airlines Flight 2933 near the Colombian city of Medellín, and a Russian military jet soon after departure from Sochi, will have done little to allay the fears of nervous fliers. But, though it will come as no consolation to the friends and families of those who perished, 2016 has been one of the safest years in aviation history.  There has been a relatively small number of air accidents this year - a testament to the stringent safety standards now in place around the world. Among 2016’s other high-profile tragedies was EgyptAir Flight 804 from Paris to Cairo, which disappeared in the Mediterranean in May, killing all 66 on board, and Flydubai Flight 981 , which crashed after an aborted landing in Russia with the loss of 62 lives.              Despite a couple of recent incidents, 2016 remains one of the safest years in aviation history   Credit: Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.       According to the Aviation Safety Network (ASN), which keeps a database of all air travel incidents, 2016 was the second safest year on record. There were 19 fatal accidents this year, resulting in 325 deaths - down from 560 in 2015. Given that this year will see around 3.5 billion air passengers flown, that’s just one death per 10,769,230 travellers. Two of these 19 accidents were on flights operated by airlines on the EU “black list”.  Only one year saw fewer deaths - 2013, with 265. But with 3.048 billion boarding a plane that year, according to the World Bank’s data, this amounts to a very similar number of deaths per passenger: one per 11,501,886.    Safest years in aviation history | Deaths per total number of passengers flown       Safest years in aviation history | Total deaths     When one discounts hijackings and sabotage, 2015 was actually the safest year on record. The crashes of a Germanwings A320 in March 2015, deliberately caused by co-pilot Andreas Lubitz , and a Metrojet A321 in October , due to a suspected bomb, accounted for the majority of last year's fatalities.                  Last year also saw the fewest number of fatal crashes involving passenger aircraft - just seven. There has been 11 so far in 2016. The general trend, however - that air travel has never been safer - is easy to see.  “Since 1997 the average number of airliner accidents has shown a steady and persistent decline... thanks to the continuing efforts of international aviation organisations such as ICAO, IATA, Flight Safety Foundation and the aviation industry,” said ASN President Harro Ranter.  But what of the deadliest year in aviation history? For that, one must go back to 1972, which saw a remarkable 2,370 deaths and 72 fatal accidents. There were 11 crashes that saw at least 100 perish, including four Aeroflot flights, and others involving Iberia, Sterling Airways, Alitalia, British European Airways, Interflug, Spantax and Eastern Air Lines.    At a glance | 10 deadliest years in aviation history                 1972 was the deadliest year in aviation history       Fearful fliers should be grateful the Seventies are over. The following year, 1973, was the second deadliest on record, with 69 fatal crashes and 2,028 deaths. The carriers involved in the biggest disasters that year included Royal Jordanian, Libya Arab Airlines, Invicta International Airlines, Varig and Pan Am. And, of course, Aeroflot, which had a staggering 17 crashes that year.  And 1974 was the fourth deadliest year, with 1,989 fatalities from 68 crashes (eight involving Aeroflot). It should be noted that safety standards have improved drastically at the Russian airline since then - it hasn't been involved in a fatal accident since 1996.    At a glance | The deadliest decades in airliner history     During every year in the Seventies, there were more than 1,000 deaths, making it comfortably the deadliest decade on record (16,766 - more than twice as many as during the 2000s).    The confessions of an airline pilot                                                                     Show comments     If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in   Register  Log in    Please review our commenting policy                                    Extraordinary trips with extraordinary people    View our Exclusive Tours 2018                Read more                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:30pm     Your 20 favourite ski resorts                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:06am     Comment: Will new rules spell the end of hidden car hire charges?   Nick Trend                      04 Apr 2018 ,  10:27am     It took Italian authorities 16 months to issue my speeding fine – do I still have to pay?                  29 Mar 2018 ,  9:26am     10 tips for skiing off-piste from the freeride master                  23 Mar 2018 ,  2:23pm     14 reasons William and Kate will still be able to go skiing - even once a family of five                                Travel latest                 10 Apr 2018 ,  3:49pm     Inside the world's booziest, most bombastic literary festival              Gallery      10 Apr 2018 ,  2:37pm    Gallery: 10 of the best traditional trulli hotels in Puglia                 10 Apr 2018 ,  2:07pm     Comment: Stop being an airport snob! In defence of Luton and Stansted, the butt of all travel jokes   Hugh Morris                      10 Apr 2018 ,  1:57pm     Is this the most surprising cycling destination on Earth?                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:30pm     Your 20 favourite ski resorts                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:15pm     10 amazing ways to see Italy in 2018                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:02pm     The world's busiest airports – Dubai inches closer to the top spot                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:46am     'First luxury hotel in space' set to welcome guests by 2022 (reservations now open)                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:29am     Highway to nowhere: 11 of the loneliest roads in the world                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:26am     What's it really like on the world's largest cruise ship?              Gallery      10 Apr 2018 ,  9:15am    Gallery: London's 14 greatest buildings                 09 Apr 2018 ,  4:20pm     Can Athens find a way to tackle its pickpocketing epidemic?                  09 Apr 2018 ,  3:49pm     First look at La Rosière’s new €15 million ski area expansion                  09 Apr 2018 ,  3:15pm     Paradise lost: Beautiful islands ruined by tourism                  09 Apr 2018 ,  12:59pm     Why Europe's unsung culture capital should be your next city break                  09 Apr 2018 ,  12:03pm     The best way to kill time at the airport                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:40am     Jet2 is named best airline in the UK - but where does BA rank?                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:26am     20 incredible hotels in the Balearics                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:22am     New website earns travellers money back if their flight gets cheaper after booking                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:06am     Comment: Will new rules spell the end of hidden car hire charges?   Nick Trend                      09 Apr 2018 ,  10:45am     Pillow Talk: The hottest openings, news and experiences in the world of hotels                         Contact us    About us    Rewards    Archive    Reader Prints    Branded Content    Syndication    Guidelines    Privacy    Terms and Conditions    Advertising terms         © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018                          We've noticed you're adblocking.  We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.  We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.  Thank you for your support.   Need help?  Click here for instructions   Close              Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                                                    Seeker          vr      video      space           exploration       planets       astronomy       astrophysics               more         tech       earth       health       culture          tech           robotics       artificial intelligence       gadgets       materials       transport               earth           climate       animals       conservation       energy               health           medicine       mind       biotech               culture           archaeology       history       behavior                                 Popular Searches    Tech    Space    Culture    Earth           Search      Facebook     Twitter     Youtube                Navigation         Seeker          Search                      vr      video      space     View All space    exploration    planets    astronomy    astrophysics        tech     View All tech    robotics    artificial intelligence    gadgets    materials    transport        earth     View All earth    climate    animals    conservation    energy        health     View All health    medicine    mind    biotech        culture     View All culture    archaeology    history    behavior       privacy policy   follow us  Facebook    Twitter    Youtube                                                 Exploration    How Common Are Skydiving Accidents?         By DNews   Published On 09/15/2011  11:30 AM EDT         Share on Facebook      Tweet this article       Email              Skydiving is one of the ultimate thrills you can have, provided you're not scared of jumping out of an airplane or helicopter, or generally acrophobic (which comes with the territory). Fear is obviously the main deterrent to those unadventurous types who dare not skydive, probably with the thoughts of anything that can go wrong when free-falling toward the earth from 15,000 feet. But let's cite some facts about the infrequency of skydiving accidents, so that the not-so-daring might reconsider.   First off, I'm not going to lie; accidents do happen in the sky. But they also happen on the ground, in the approximately 10 million car accidents per year, according to a report by the US Department of Transportation. About 40,000 of these accidents result in fatalities, simply for doing something that many people consider a necessary everyday activity. And are you afraid of driving or riding in a car?   Compare that against the statistics of skydiving accidents. According to the United States Parachuting Association, there are an estimated 3 million jumps per year, and the fatality count is only 21 (for 2010). That's a 0.0007% chance of dying from a skydive, compared to a 0.0167% chance of dying in a car accident (based on driving 10,000 miles). In layman's terms, you are about 24 times more likely to die in a car accident than in a skydiving one.   With that said, the answer to the question is that skydiving accidents are not common at all. And according to statistics by the US Parachuting Association, the average number of fatalities per year has been in a steady decline from decade to decade; it's almost been cut in half of what it used to be in the 1970s. So rest assured that skydiving may have its risks, but they are extremely minimal. And being someone who's been skydiving, I can tell you that running that small risk is worth it; there's nothing like the sensation of flying down the sky with the earth below you in every direction - indoor skydiving doesn't even come close. Of course, you should make sure you have a parachute or tandem guide with you, unless you're as daring as extreme skydive instructor Scott Palmer (as seen in Jackass 3D) or Red Bull-endorsing motorsports daredevil Travis Pastrana , who have both jumped out of a plane without a chute (see video below).             You may not be ready for a stunt like that, but take note: Both of them survived.   For more adrenaline-pumping content, check out The Adrenalist .          Share on Facebook      Tweet this article       Email                       Read the Comments                                         Seeker                                    Advertising    Careers    Privacy Policy    T's & C's                                                                                                                  Accessibility links   Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                                    Travel   Menu           Culture & Identity      Food & Hospitality      Adventure & Experience      Destinations      About us                                        Travel Tips     What is the safest mode of travel?                                     The sinking of the Costa Concordia shone a spotlight on the overall safety of transport. But in comparison to car accidents, plane crashes and cruise disasters are rare.           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Google+           Share by Email            Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on StumbleUpon           Share on Google+           Share by Email                   By Suemedha Sood   27 January 2012      It’s often said that driving in a car is more dangerous than flying in a plane, yet when an aeroplane crashes or a ship sinks, the nonstop media coverage that follows makes that claim hard to believe. The sinking of the Costa Concordia cruise ship this month has once
again shone a spotlight on the overall safety of
transport. But considering how rare a disaster like this is, especially in
comparison to car crashes, it raises the
question, which mode of transportation is truly the safest?  Worldwide, there were only 373 fatalities on scheduled commercial
passenger flights in 2011, according to the non-profit Aviation Safety
Network Database . And according to the International Air
Transport Association , an  airline trade organization,
there were 2.84 billion commercial passengers last year, which would roughly
mean your average odds of dying on a commercial flight were roughly one in 7.6
million in 2011.  Over the course of a lifetime, the risk increases. For
example, in a 2006 Reason magazine article , the National
Safety Council (NSC) reported that in the US the average person’s
odds of dying in a plane crash in their lifetime is about one in 5,000.  But contrast those odds to vehicular
fatalities. In the same article, the NSC reported that the odds of dying in a
car accident in the US over a lifetime was about one in 83. While the number of
global vehicle passengers and drivers may not be known, the World Health
Organization estimates that 1.2 million people die each year in road traffic accidents (roughly
half of which are pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists). So even though we drive more
than we fly, with apologies to Jack Kerouac and George Clooney, it seems that
there is basis for the claim that on the road is more dangerous than up in the
air.  While cruises are more optional than planes and
vehicle when travelling, the odds of dying are nearly as slim as flying. As
for cruise ships, the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), an
association of cruise lines, said that from 2005 to 2011 only 16 people died in cruise accidents, out of 100
million passengers, putting the odds of death over that period at one in 6.25
million. But the Costa Concordia disaster doubled that fatality number in the
early days of 2012. (The death
toll from the recent accident has currently reached 16, and there
are still at least 16 people still missing.)  However, a
new report by Reuters questions the validity of any cruise safety statistics
because there is no public database on cruise line accidents. The International
Maritime Organisation (IMO), which provides regulations for cruise ships, does not
keep complete records of marine casualties but recorded fewer than 300
incidents since 2000, while the independent website CruiseJunkie , run by sociology professor
Ross Klein
of Memorial University Newfoundland, has published reports of 644 incidents in
the same period.  Whatever the number, the
industry can always increase safety. With the investigation into the Costa
Concordia disaster, the IMO’s regulations -- which, according to Reuters, are open
to interpretation by governments, captains and operators -- are falling under
scrutiny. For instance, passengers on the Costa Concordia had not
completed a lifeboat safety drill , because ships have 24 hours after
setting sail to hold the drill. Now some in the industry are calling for cruise lines to take charge
of this protocol and require safety drills before the ships depart.  At the end of the day, you
have to get from point A to point B -- be it for business, pleasure or personal
obligations. The best you can do is take the proper precautions, sit back (or
up, if you’re driving) and relax. Here are some travel safety tips for  driving , taking public transit ,  flying and cruising . If you’re still nervous, this BBC Travel article highlights which airlines had the
safest track records in 2011, and you can learn about incidents at sea at the website CruiseJunkie.                                              Follow BBC Travel              Facebook           Twitter           Pinterest           Instagram                                                                                         Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                                        search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       A Burial Pod That Safely Decomposes Bodies Beneath Trees                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                           Home  Communities  Create  Shop                                       21 Things More Likely Than Dying In A Plane Crash  You're more likely to win an Olympic gold medal or get hit by a meteorite.     Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016                              17726  views                             17726  views          comments             With the recent disappearance of EgyptAir flight 804, the
fear of flying has reawakened within many Americans. With stories of vanishing planes in mind, Americans may find themselves wondering if something like that could happen to them. Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects roughly 20 million people worldwide, and is a very understandable fear. The idea of being left helpless in an
emergency situation that occurs 30,000 feet above the ground is terrifying. When you decide to board a
plane, you lose control over your fate. If an accident did strike, you would have
no way to help yourself or to escape the situation! Very scary stuff to think about. However, to keep things in perspective, your chances of being in a plane
crash are extremely low, 1 in 11 million , to be exact. The odds of experiencing
one of the following are much more likely. 1. Being born with an extra finger or toe 1 in 500. 2. Becoming President of the United States 1 in 10 million. ( I'll admit that your chances are slim, but it is still more likely than dying in a plane crash.) 3. Getting killed from a meteorite 1 in 700,000. 4. Giving birth to conjoined twins 1 in 200,000. 5.  Winning an Oscar 1 in 11,500. 6. Dying from a bee sting 1 in 79,842. 7. Winning an Olympic gold medal 1 in 662,000. (Assuming you can qualify for the Olympics first…) 8. Dying from a flesh-eating bacteria 1 in a million. 9. Drowning in your bathtub 1 in 840,000. 10.  Dating a millionaire 1 in 215. (Might just drop out of college and play the odds on this one.) 11. Getting murdered 1 in 18,000. 12. Getting killed by a bear at Yellowstone National Park 1 in 2.1 million. 13. Dating a supermodel 1 in 88,000. 14. Writing a New York Times bestseller 1 in 220. 15. Having your ID stolen 1 in 465. 16. Dying in a tornado 1 in 60,000. 17. Getting poisoned 1 in 1,400. 18. Dying in a skydiving accident 1 in 100,000. 19. Becoming a nudist 1 in 6,000. 20. Meeting someone who speaks Cherokee 1 in 15,000. 21. Living to 100 years old 1 in 3.      Cover Image Credit: Premium Times                               Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016          At Brigham Young University Idaho     Popular Right Now             You May Have Worn The Prom Dress With Him, But I Get To Wear The Wedding Dress   by Victoria Higgins            The End Of The Semester As Told By Joey Tribbiani   by Caleigh Pittman            To The Nursing Major   by Morgan Leigh Jackson             Welcome new, meaningful ideas to your inbox.  Sign up for our weekly newsletter.    Thank you for signing up! Check your inbox for the latest from Odyssey.  This is not a valid email, please try again.                           6 Differences Between Denmark And The United States  While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark.     Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018                             19  views                             19  views          comments         Over spring break, I traveled to the beautiful country of Denmark. While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark. Here are a list of things that I noticed were different in the United States. 1. Everything is so much more expensive. I've already talked about this a little in a previous article I have written, but when I say this place is expensive, I mean it. A bottle of water in America is around $1.50 to $2.00. I bought a bottle of water in Denmark and it was upwards to $5.00. If you are planning a trip to Denmark, make sure to budget accordingly. Make sure you figure out what you want to spend your money on. I suggest getting an Airbnb and grocery shopping for breakfasts, lunches, or dinners. Eating in restaurants will add up really quickly. Try putting that money towards museums and other entertainment. Oh, also, public transportation is amazing, but also very, very expensive. Try to use the train as little as possible. Maybe rent a car or a bike, if you're just planning on staying in Copenhagen. But, if you are traveling around the country, consider a bus. Gas prices are, you guessed it, way more expensive in Denmark. Do your research about the cheapest ways to get around, depending on the cities or towns you'd like to visit. 2. The people are friendly, but not in the way you're used to. Danish people get a horrible reputation. If you have read anything about the Danes, you've probably read they are rude and unfriendly. That is the furthest from the truth. The Danes are so willing to help and will never give you the cold shoulder. However, do not expect the overly friendly type of people you'd find in America. They are willing to give you directions and help you out if you're confused, but you must approach them first. They do not talk to strangers first but will have no problem answering a question. Just don't small talk or ask them anything too personal. They like their privacy. Also, most of the Danes speak excellent English, so there is no trouble there. 3. The food is... interesting. I didn't hate the food. I actually liked the food a lot more than the food in Ireland, but it is not Italian cuisine. A lot of fish, egg, and mayo. Oh, and hotdogs. Don't be afraid to try it. Trust me, it is not as bad as it looks. I had a burger with what is called "red salad," which is just basically cranberries. Yes, you heard right. A burger with cranberries. Also, there was no beef on this burger. It was a type of slimy pork. It wasn't the best thing I have ever had, but it was an experience nevertheless. If you ever visit, you have to try the open faced sandwiches! The Danes swear by them. 4. Teenagers are allowed to drink and they are allowed to drink on the streets. The drinking age in Denmark is 15. Which means you'll get to see teenagers running around with beer cans just on the street. Denmark doesn't have a law against drinking in public, so it is completely legal and normal. Don't get too freaked out. I was in Aalborg and saw a group of people playing a drinking game right in a public park. You don't have to join the trend, but just try to act as normal as possible around it. The Danes think it's rude if you stare or are too judgmental. 5. Bikes are everywhere. In any of the major cities: Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg, etc, you will see more bikes than cars. So much so, there is a specific bike lane for bikers. It is the size of a road. Biking is the cheapest and fastest way to get around in Denmark. Plus, everyone really does care about the environment. Bikes has just become the most used form of transportation. When in Copenhagen, rent a bike. It is the best way to see the city. Remember to look for bikes too! They go faster than the cars and will not be happy about you walking in the bike lane. It is not a sidewalk. 6. Denmark is so safe. I'm not saying America isn't safe, but what I am saying, is people in Denmark leave their babies outside in a stroller while they are in a restaurant and this is normal. Their baby. Outside. And they aren't worried about someone kidnapping them. That is how safe this place is. Story time: I lost my wallet while I was in Aarhus. I got a call from Kent State the next day saying someone had found it and wanted to return in. A Dane literally contacted Kent State after seeing my flashcard wanting to return my wallet, which had cash and my credit cards in it. When I got it back, everything was still inside. Including old receipts. When I say this place is safe, I mean it's safe. Denmark is such a beautiful country and if you ever have the chance, visit. It's worth the many pennies.    Cover Image Credit: Photo by Max Adulyanukosol on Unsplash    Keep Reading                        Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018          At Kent State University       Related Content                      A Letter To Who We Can't Forget No Matter How Hard We Try   by Alyssa Taylor            4 Haunted Places In America   by Aubrielle Cuccuini            Poetry On Odyssey: "Eiffel"   by Kaitlyn Eichenbaum          Connect with a generation of new voices.  We are students, thinkers, influencers, and communities sharing our ideas with the world. Join our platform to create and discover content that actually matters to you.  Learn more  Start Creating                The Ultimate Travel Guide: Prague  Thinking about visiting the Czech Republic's iconical capital city? Here's what you need to know.     Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018                             216  views                             216  views          comments         A beautiful and unique city known for everything ranging from its rich history to its active nightlife, Prague is a gem in the heart of the Czech Republic that cannot be missed. Located in the northwest of the Czech Republic, Prague has a beauty that can only be understood by traveling to the city itself. Before starting my trip to Europe, I asked the advice of several other travelers about which destinations they recommend that I travel to. High on the list of many of these travelers was Prague. With so many recommendations, I simply had to visit. But what makes this city such a favorite among both travelers and its inhabitants? To start with, I found the people of the Czech Republic to be very kind to their visitors; they wanted to share the country that they love so much with anyone who is willing to take the time to visit. As far as activities go, exploring Prague without a map was one of my favorite experiences in the city. The day I arrived, I decided to wander around in search of food. In the process, I was able to get a glimpse of some of the famous architecture around the city, as well as some of its most iconic sights. After returning to my hostel, I was able to do some research into the history of these locations while also planning out the places I wanted to spend more time with. As far as specific attractions go, Prague is a perfect city to visit no matter your time frame. With that being said, a few of the most prominent and worthwhile attractions include the Charles Bridge, all of Old Town, Wenceslas Square, Petrin Hills, and Prague Castle. The main sights can be seen in a tour around the city in a day (which requires a ton of walking), but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t spend any more time there. Now let’s pretend you have just arrived in Prague and you are eager to see everything you can in just one walking journey. Doing this, I would suggest starting in Wenceslas Square and walking down the slope towards Old Town. A walk through Old Town takes you through the picturesque streets of Prague, while also allowing you to visit the Astronomical Tower, the Old Town Square, and St. Nicolas’ Church; all of which are well worth it if you find yourself in Prague. After seeing these iconic sights, wandering towards the Jewish Quarter of the city provides an opportunity to learn some of the history of the city through the years. From there, walk towards the river to see the concert hall known as Rudolfinum while listening to music written by Czech composers that you might not recognize by name, but you will recognize by their music. Walk along the Vltava River towards the Charles Bridge where you should take your time to take in the atmosphere and the unique architecture of the bridge as well as the views of Old Town and Prague Castle as they face off across the river. This walk brings you to the other side of the river where you can see the somewhat surprising Lennon Wall as well as taking a trip to Prague Castle. This walking trip provides an opportunity to see most major sights in Prague. Like with any city, it is possible to go into more detail if you so desire, and Prague is a city that deserves that extra attention. There are museums and historical sites littered throughout the city, and they are not hard to find. I visited the National Technical Museum in a quieter part of the city and I was blown away by the size and level of detail that the museum provided. Anyone with enough interest could spend a full day exploring every detail. In addition to that, the Jewish museum in the Jewish Quarter is well known and has the reputation of being very good, but I did not have the time to visit it, unfortunately. The Prague Castle allows for entry that is free of charge, but a ticket is required to visit some parts of the complex. Purchase of this ticket depends on the level of detail you wish to go into, and the amount of time you have to spend there. The activity that I highly recommend is taking a trip to the Petrin Hills where you can buy a ticket to ascend Petrin Tower where the views of the city are simply breathtaking. These examples stand as just a few options for ideas on how to make your trip to Prague as complete as you can want. After taking a walk around the city to see all of the sights, taking the public transportation provides for a welcome rest from all of the walking. The transportation is cheap and cost is based on time which makes it perfect for travelers who want unlimited travel for just a few days. As far as additional public transportation goes, taxis can be found throughout the city, but be sure to find a good price. In many instances, getting an Uber will be far more convenient and allow for the best possible price. The Czech Republic is a beautiful country and its capital city is the culmination of the country’s beauty. Prague is a city that should be on every traveler’s list for its uniqueness, its culture, and its people.    Cover Image Credit: Jacob Mitchener   Keep Reading                        Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018          At University of Maryland College Park       Related Content                          The Value Of Travel Is Not In The Pretty Pictures We Take   by Linnea Shapter            Terror Within The Walls: Hauntings Of Eastern State Penitentiary   by Grace Kinnicutt            Everyone Should Go To Osaka To Find Some Peace And Quiet   by Erin O’Donnell                           Facebook Comments            Home  Communities  Create  Shop   Apply to create for Odyssey    About Odyssey  Service Desk  Careers  Odyssey Community  Terms of Service  DMCA Report  Privacy Policy  Copyright Policy                     Elite Daily Bad Robot The Odds Of A Plane Crash Are One In 11 Million, Yet You're Still Afraid By John Haltiwanger Mar 25 2015 Share Are you flying somewhere today? Feeling somewhat nervous about it? You have absolutely no reason to be worried; probability is on your side. Grab some peanuts, put your headphones in, sit back and relax. The airplane has revolutionized our existence. It has cut journeys that used to take weeks and months into just a few hours. It's also extremely safe, but people continue to fear it. A recent plane crash in the French Alps may have increased people's anxieties. Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed on Tuesday not long before 11 am. Tragically, everyone on board, 144 passengers and six crew members, died in the process. Germanwings is now a trending topics on social media and will undoubtedly continue to be discussed in the coming weeks. Along with "Pretty Little Liars" and Angelina Jolie, it's currently one of the top subjects people are searching for, Google Trends reveals . We are both terrified of and fascinated by death, particularly when it happens in unusual ways. The likelihood of dying in a plane crash (or even being in one) is so slim it's almost pointless to quantify. According to The Economist , the probability of your plane going down is around one in 5.4 million. Other reports place the odds closer to one in 11 million . To put this into perspective, you are far more likely to be struck by lightning or attacked by a shark than you are to die in a plane crash. And there are even more common things that kill decidedly more frequently, including the flu . Traveling by car is 100 times more deadly than hopping on a plane. Not to mention, statistically, it's never been safer to fly . Perhaps this helps explain why we become so captivated by plane crashes when they do occur; they're just so incredibly rare. At the same time, media coverage of these sorts of events is undeniably excessive and hyperbolic. This trend is driven by a desire for increased viewership and profits. Does this say more about the media or more about us? It's a two-way street: Major news networks consistently report on tragedies because they know the public will pay attention. In 2014, plane crashes often dominated the news. From the mysterious disappearance of MH370 to the tragic crash of Air Asia Flight 8501 in December, there were eight fatal plane crashes over the course of the year. In total, commercial airline accidents killed 992 people across the globe in 2014, the most since 2005, Vice reports . But if you look at data surrounding airplane crashes in a broader sense, they have decreased exponentially over time, as highlighted by the Guardian . And at this point last year, there had already been 33 plane crashes . As of the Germanwings crash, the number for 2015 stands at 17 . It's also very telling that in 2014, airplane crashes received 43 percent more media attention than the 1.24 million ground traffic fatalities that occur across the world every year, as noted by the Washington Post. Interestingly, research has shown that the habitual coverage of plane crashes hasn't necessarily served to increase fears of flying , but it certainly hasn't helped deter them, either . Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects around 6.5 percent of the population, ABC news reports . A survey from Chapman University suggests that 43 percent of people have at least some fear of flying, and around 9 percent are so afraid they won't even step foot on a plane. The fear is so ubiquitous there's even an iPhone app called "Am I Going Down?," which helps calculate how likely it is your flight will crash. Thankfully, it usually helps reveal how low the probability is: With that said, none of this information will serve to comfort the loved ones of those who died on the Germanwings flight. Perhaps they would find some relief, however, if they weren't inundated with images of the place those closest to them perished. Should there be a discussion surrounding why this plane crashed? Absolutely. But that doesn't require 24/7 coverage of the crash site. At any given moment over the course of the next 24 hours, people will die from poverty, famine, disease, war and other forms of abhorrent violence. Simultaneously, we face the ongoing effects of climate change and inequality. Perhaps we should refocus our obsession onto these kinds of issues. It would be nice to live in a world where issues are granted attention based on their everyday impact and imminence, rather than their potential to generate profits in correlation with the whims of a fickle public. Maybe that's just wishful thinking, but it's certainly still something to think about. Citations: Why Are We So Obsessed With Plane Crashes (Vice) , Aircraft accident rates at historic low despite high profile plane crashes (The Guardian ) , Germanwings plane crash What we know so far (CNN) , Theres an app to calculate the odds of your plane crashing (Quartz) , How safe is air travel really (The Guardian) , A crash course in probability (The Economist) , Fear of flying some good things to know (ABC News) , After Air Algerie AH5017 Incident A Statistical Look At The Probability And Chances of Dying In A Plane Crash (International Business Times) , Flash Facts About Lightning (National Geographic) , Shark Attack Facts (National Geographic ) , Deaths and Mortality (CDC) , Lots of Americans fear flying But not because of plane crashes (Washington Post) Homepage Fashion & Beauty News Entertainment Life Dating Video Company About Contact Newsletter Terms Privacy          Information is Beautiful information is beautiful Reduce Your Chances of Dying in a Plane Crash Sections about blog data books training contact  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Connect facebook twitter instagram pinterest RSS feed facebook twitter instagram RSS feed Search Search E.g: Billion dollar-o-gram Based on a true story Mountains out of molehills Categories interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Popular Rhetological Fallacies - A list of Logical Fallacies & Rhetorical Devices with examples What Streaming Music Services Pay World's Best Hangover Cure? Biggest Fake News Stories of 2017 Ikigai - Japanese concept to enhance work, life & sense of worth Cause Célèbre - Gender Split Behind Celebrity Charitable Giving & Causes Best Albums of 2017: The Consensus: Infographic Star Wars 'Last Jedi': One of the Biggest Rotten Tomatoes Audience vs Critics Score Splits Ever UK's Brexit Divorce Bill-ions Tooth & Law - What's halal? What's kosher? The UK's Brexit Options in the Eurozone Landscape - Visualized UK Government Spending - Incomes & Outcomes  Follow  Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Enter your email address to get spam-free viz updates straight to your inbox!  License this image → Follow us on Facebook → Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Share this  Facebook  3,204  Twitter   StumbleUpon  6,254  Pinterest  141  Reddit  1 Email Related visualizations Mavericks & Heretics What is Consciousness Cocktails – Interactive Oil Well – Static Version Extreme Global Warming Solutions Currently on the Table Making data into art Sources The Guardian Datablog: Most Popular Airliners , Ascend Worldwide , AviationSafety.net , Wikipedia: List Of Accidents On Commercial Airliners , Flowing Data: Safest Seat To Sit In See the data http://bit.ly/IIB_PlaneCrash Subjects how to science Older Drugs World  Newer Caffeine and Calories  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Knowledge is Beautiful: "Thought-provoking as well as startlingly attractive" - Wall Street Journal Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Menu Home About Contact Our Picks Living data Buy our books Interactive More IIB Awards David McCandless VizSweet Follow  Information is Beautiful © 2007 — 2018     Topics Sections Latest updates Leaders Briefing United States The Americas Asia China Middle East and Africa Europe Britain International Business Finance and economics Science and technology Books and arts Obituary Special reports Technology Quarterly Debates Blogs Bagehot’s notebook Buttonwood’s notebook Democracy in America Erasmus Free exchange Game theory Graphic detail Gulliver Kaffeeklatsch Prospero The Economist explains Current edition More Apps & Digital Editions The Economist apps Espresso Global Business Review World in Figures Other Publications 1843 Magazine The World In The World If From The Economist Group Events Online GMAT prep Online GRE prep Executive Education Navigator Which MBA Jobs Board Learning.ly The Economist Store The Economist Intelligence Unit The Economist Corporate Network Media Audio edition Economist Films Economist Radio About The Economist Subscribe Log in or sign up Manage subscription E-mail address Password Keep me logged in Forgot password? Log In New to  The Economist ? Sign up now Activate your digital subscription Manage your subscription Renew your subscription Search Topics Latest updates Leaders Briefing United States The Americas Asia China Middle East and Africa Europe Britain International Business Finance and economics Science and technology Books and arts Obituary Special reports Technology Quarterly Debates Blogs Bagehot’s notebook Buttonwood’s notebook Democracy in America Erasmus Free exchange Game theory Graphic detail Gulliver Kaffeeklatsch Prospero The Economist explains Current edition Audio edition Economist Films Economist Radio The Economist apps More The Economist apps Espresso Global Business Review World in Figures Events Online GMAT prep Online GRE prep Executive Education Navigator Which MBA Jobs Board Learning.ly The Economist Store The Economist Intelligence Unit The Economist Corporate Network About The Economist Subscribe Gulliver Business travel Air safety A crash course in probability Gulliver Jan 29th 2015 by B.R. GULLIVER will soon fly from Heathrow to Milan on a British Airways Airbus A319. That flight has a one-in-4.8m chance of crashing. Shortly after he is jetting from Heathrow to JFK on a Virgin-operated A330. Chance of crashing? One in 5.4m. That means that he could apparently expect to fly on the route for 14,716 years before plummeting into the Atlantic. Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks. Latest stories An update from Jeremy Grantham Buttonwood’s notebook 42 minutes ago Guernsey considers whether to legalise assisted dying Britain an hour ago Gulf Air tries to reclaim its crown Gulliver 8 hours ago Viktor Orban maintains firm control of the Hungarian Parliament Graphic detail 21 hours ago Why is Mark Zuckerberg testifying in Congress? The Economist explains a day ago Homo sapiens spread to Asia earlier than once believed Science and technology a day ago See more These figures come courtesy of “Am I Going Down?”, a recently released iPhone app that claims to calculate the odds of a disaster on a particular flight. Users input three variables: the departure and arrival airports, the airline, and the type of plane used. The app's maker hasn't responded to requests to give a little more detail of its methodology, but one presumes that it is a simple weighting of the proportion of crashes associated with each of those variables in the past. There are, of course, countless holes in such a simplistic approach. How does one decide the relative importance of the make of plane, airline or airport? Is past performance really an indicator of future performance? Does, for example, a Malaysia Airlines flight being shot out of the sky by Russian separatists make this event any more likely to happen again in the future? Is the calculation based on miles flown or the number of journeys? (As the take-off is the most dangerous phase of a flight, a 10,000 mile flight isn't twice as risky as a 5,000 mile one.) What about other important variables, such as the weather? The 14,716 years figure caused us a bit of confusion. But reader guest-isjswsa jumped in on the comments thread to shed some light on it. It’s the average length of time people will fly before crashing, if lots and lots of them do it every day. An alternative way of expressing it would be to say that if you were to arrange to fly this route every day for the next 10,210 years, your chance of dying would be 50%. And if you wanted to book enough flights to be almost certain of crashing, you reach a 99% probability at 67,833 years of daily flights. (For those interested in the maths, there is more here .) But perhaps this is a bit churlish. The idea behind the app is laudable, if not mathematically sound. Nic Johns, its creator, says he wants to reassure nervous flyers that they are all but guaranteed to reach their destination in one piece. Of course, we all know this deep down. In real terms, it makes no difference if the chance of crashing is one in 1m or one in 9m; the likelihood is so small as to make the difference irrelevant. But there is a special place in our psyches for the fear of big, unlikely catastrophes. According to David Ropeik , author of " How Risky is it, Really? ", the deadliest plane crash in history occurred in 1977 in Tenerife when 583 people were killed after two jumbos collided on the runway. Yet, that many people die from heart disease in America every eight hours. As Mr Ropeik explains, air crashes are considered catastrophes while heart attacks are not, because they fulfil three criteria: A catastrophe has to be big, it has to happen all at once, and something about it has to be calamitous—disastrous—really bad. A plane crash certainly qualifies. It kills a lot of people all at once, in one place, and in a really horrific way. But heart disease [...] meets only one of those criteria. As awful as heart disease and stroke and diabetes are, they don't kill people in such vividly awful ways as plane crashes. It bears repeating just how rare such deaths in the air are. Safety statistics collated by IATA , an airline association, show that in 2013 more than 3 billion people flew on commercial aircraft. During that time there were 81 accidents and 210 fatalities. What is more, this figure has been falling for years (although the two recent Malaysia Airlines disasters will mean a blip when the 2014 figures are released). By way of comparison, the World Health Organisation says there were over 1.2m road traffic deaths around the world in 2010 . It is the leading cause of death among 15-29 year olds. The University of Oxford calculates that in 2006, Brits had odds of one in 36,512 of dying in a motor accident and one in 3.5m dying in a plane crash. Of course, many more people drive than fly; hence it is not easy to compare the two types of travel in a meaningful way. It is not known how many car journeys people take around the world, but even if it was, one would have to decide whether to compare the number of discrete trips or the overall distance travelled (that is an important distinction because if you were travelling from London to Edinburgh, for example, you might reasonably choose between driving and flying). Suffice to say what we all know: the fear of flying is incommensurate with its risk. And, as this chart from an Economist  piece last year highlights, that’s before we compare it to the really dangerous modes of transport, like using stairs. Update: This blog post was updated in 30/1/15 to include readers' explanations of how "Am I Going Down" seems to have calculated its odds Gulliver Jan 29th 2015 by B.R. Reuse this content About The Economist The Economist explains Why is Mark Zuckerberg testifying in Congress? It is likely to get uncomfortable for Facebook's boss The Economist explains An island entire of itself Guernsey considers whether to legalise assisted dying Britain All lies Asian countries launch phoney assaults on fake news Asia Horror in Syria America vows to respond to a suspected chemical attack in Syria Middle East and Africa Tell us what you think of Economist.com Leave feedback Need assistance with your subscription? Contact us Subscribe Contact us Help Keep updated Subscribe to The Economist newsletters Sign up to get more from The Economist Get 3 free articles per week, daily 
 newsletters and more. About The Economist Advertise Reprints Careers Media Centre Published since September 1843 to take part in “a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.”  Terms of Use Privacy Cookies Accessibility Modern Slavery Statement Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited 2018 . All rights reserved.                    Skip to main content.                        SUBSCRIBE NOW to get home delivery             News   Sports   Life   Money   Tech   Travel   Opinion     Weather     Games   Scores   Stocks   Video     More       Photo Galleries   Your Take   Interactives   Newsletters & Alerts   Best-Selling Books   Newsstand   USA Weekend   Apps   College   Classifieds     Games   Scores   Stocks   Video    Default View Big Page       Search   ☰                Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?    Travel Tips    Aurelio Locsin, Leaf Group          Is flying safer than driving?   (Photo: Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Alberto P. Veiga )      Related Articles   What Are the Dangers of Transatlantic Flights?  Advantages of Air Travel  Symptoms of Equilibrium Loss in Air Travel  Airplane Travel Safety     You may think that traveling by plane is inherently more dangerous than driving an automobile. After all, an air crash is catastrophic, with more loss of life, injury and property damage than a car accident. A few U.S. government statistics can shed light on this question.          Driving  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration compiles and researches accident statistics for the entire country. Its 2008 Traffic Safety Facts Data boils down the millions of accidents and other statistics to 1.27 fatalities per 100 million vehicle miles traveled. In contrast, the 1998 rate was 1.58 fatalities per 100 million miles.   Flying  The National Transportation Safety Board compiles aviation accident data. Preliminary statistics for 2008 show only 20 accidents for U.S. air carriers operating scheduled service. This works out to nearly zero accidents per million flying miles. No one died, and only five people were seriously injured.   Comparisons  In absolute numbers, driving is more dangerous, with more than 5 million accidents compared to 20 accidents in flying. A more direct comparison per 100 million miles pits driving's 1.27 fatalities and 80 injuries against flying's lack of deaths and almost no injuries, which again shows air travel to be safer.   Odds  The National Safety Council compiled an odds-of-dying table for 2008, which further illustrates the relative risks of flying and driving safety. It calculated the odds of dying in a motor vehicle accident to be 1 in 98 for a lifetime. For air and space transport (including air taxis and private flights), the odds were 1 in 7,178 for a lifetime, according to the table.   Conclusion  Statistically speaking, flying is far safer than driving. However, it may feel more dangerous because risk perception is based on more than facts, according to David Ropeik, risk communication instructor at Harvard School of Public Health. Driving affords more personal control, making it feel safer. In addition, plane crashes are catastrophic, killing more people at once, which grabs more attention and makes people more sensitive to them. Car crashes happen every day and spread the loss over time, making their combined effects less noticeable.               References  NHTSA.DOT.gov: 2008 Traffic Safety Facts NTSB.gov: 1989-2008 Aviation Accident Statistics NTSB.gov: 1989-2008 Passenger Injuries    Resources  NSC.org: Odds of Dying PBS.org: How Risky Is Flying?    About the Author  Aurelio Locsin has been writing professionally since 1982. He published his first book in 1996 and is a frequent contributor to many online publications, specializing in consumer, business and technical topics. Locsin holds a Bachelor of Arts in scientific and technical communications from the University of Washington.    Leaf Group is a USA TODAY content partner providing general travel information. Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.    Photo Credits   Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Alberto P. Veiga          icon for annotation tool             Cite this Article  Choose Citation Style  MLA  APA  Chicago (B)   Locsin, Aurelio. "Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?" Travel Tips - USA Today , http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html. Accessed 10 April 2018.  Locsin, Aurelio. (n.d.). Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel? Travel Tips - USA Today . Retrieved from http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html  Locsin, Aurelio. "Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?" accessed April 10, 2018. http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html   Copy Citation  Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.                     More Articles   Sea Sickness After a Cruise  Air Travel Vs. Car Travel  How to Take the Fear Out of Flying  Airlines Firearm Rules  What Happens If Your Flight Is Cancelled for Your Vacation and You Have Insurance?  List of the Safest Airlines        Travel Tips Articles   The History of Airline Industry  Why Aren't Cell Phones Allowed on Planes?  Advantages of Flight Travel  What Is the Altitude of a Plane in Flight?  The Effects of 9/11 on the Airline Industry  How to Compare Air Miles to Land Miles  Is it Safe to Travel During the First Month of Pregnancy?  The Safest Seats in an Airplane        This story is part of Travel Tips       Travel Tips  »   Travel Tips »  Travel Preparation & Accommodations »  Car Travel Planning »  Car Travel »   Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?                    What Are the Dangers of Transatlantic Flights?            Advantages of Air Travel                                         share        Trending         Tech  #WhoaScience            Tech  #WhoaScience   Mar 14, 2017 @ 12:10 PM           If My Airplane Crashes, What Are My Chances Of Survival?                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Quora    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.                    Photographer: Gill Allen/Bloomberg News      What are the chances of surviving in a plane crash? originally appeared on Quora : the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world .  Answer by Tom Farrier , Retired USAF rescue helicopter pilot; current aviation safety contractor (UAS), on Quora :  Ignore Hollywood. Aircraft involved in crashes are safer than at any time in history, thanks to decades of experience, research, and safety enhancements. According to Aviation Safety Network , in 2016 there were about one hundred and sixty three aviation “accidents” worldwide, including those involving business jets and military transports as well as jet and propeller airliners. A grand total of twenty-four resulted in fatalities, meaning only about 15% of all accidents in this grouping — which themselves are extremely rare events — actually resulted in lives being lost.    (FYI, only five of the fatal 2016 accidents were in the U.S, and none involved a major U.S. air carrier.)  Consider four possible outcomes to any crash:   You survive a survivable accident;  You survive a non-survivable accident;   You don’t survive a survivable accident; or  You don’t survive a non-survivable accident.   So, what the heck is a “survivable accident,” anyway? Well, to synthesize a couple of different takes on the subject, most in the aviation safety business (as well as those interested in other types of vehicle safety), look for three conditions:   The forces encountered by human occupants were within the limits of human tolerance;  The structure surrounding occupants remains substantially intact, maintaining an uncompromised volume around them; and  The post-crash environment does not present an immediate threat to occupants or rescuers.   In practical terms, this means directing forces away from people, slowing the onset of those that can’t be re-directed, preventing internal structures from failing in such a way as to stuck into the area where the carbon-based life forms are, and keeping the fire, smoke and fumes from easily starting or readily spreading. On this basis, you can see that a smoking hole in the ground is non-survivable, and there’s always a possibility that a small number of people don’t get the full benefit of protections that rendered the overall accident to be considered “survivable.” But, there are many, many examples to the contrary in events classified as “accidents” due to property damage and/or major injuries experienced in them.  In February of 2001, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board released the results of a comprehensive review of air carrier safety. They noted, “Fatal accidents such as TWA flight 800, ValuJet flight 592, and EgyptAir 990 receive extensive media coverage. Nonfatal accidents, however, often receive little coverage. As a result, the public may perceive that most air carrier accidents are not survivable. In fact, the Board's study shows that since 1983, more than 95% of the passengers survived.” (That includes accident where, given the criteria above, the accident itself should have been considered “non-survivable.)  A large contributor to this record goes to the many improvements the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration required of air carriers over time. These included:   Improved seat cushions with reduced flammability.  Floor proximity emergency escape path marking.  Lavatory smoke detectors.  Lavatory fire extinguishers.  Halon fire extinguishers.  Improved interior materials.  Cargo compartment liners.  Cargo compartment fire detection/suppression.  Thermal/acoustic insulation.  16G seats.  Improved access to certain types of exits.   (These are expanded upon in a graphic available at FAA Fact Sheet: Improvements to Aircraft Survivability ).  If you keep passengers properly restrained until the noise dies down and the movement stops, you reduce the likelihood of a fire starting in the first place, you delay its propagation, and you make the by-products of burning stuff less toxic, you have a much better chance of keeping everybody alive.  This was Air France 358, following a landing that went bad at Toronto-Pearson International Airport in 2005:  (Photo: CBS.com )   (Photo: blogto.com )  Everybody lived.  This was Asiana Airlines 214, which hit the sea wall in front of the runway touchdown zone on short final to San Francisco International on July 6, 2013:  (Photo: KTVU.com )  People were ejected from this aircraft during its post-impact tumble and break-up, but two of the only three people who died were accidentally struck by first responders in the confusion. There were many significant injuries suffered by the crew and passengers, but the aircraft did what it was supposed to do under extreme conditions — it protected its occupants as well as it possibly could, and it didn’t allow fire to spread until there was time to get everyone evacuated.  Bottom line: accidents are rare; when they happen, fatalities are that much rarer thanks to a lot of hard work and investment in making planes as safe as possible.  This question originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter , Facebook , and Google+ . More questions:   Airplanes : What happens when someone dies on a plane?  Air Travel : Why do airliners have engines under the wings rather than inside the fuselage?  Aviation Accidents and Incidents : What happened to the Flight MH370?                  Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                              Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                  Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                                       Sections       Sections      Top Stories      Watch      U.S.      International      Politics      ABC News Features      Lifestyle      Entertainment      Virtual Reality      Health      Technology      Investigative      Sports      Weather        Shows       Shows      Good Morning America      World News Tonight      Nightline      20/20      This Week      The View      What Would You Do?      ABC News Features        Live       Live      Soon: White House press briefing       Soon: Senate Republicans address media       Soon: Atlanta Mayor holds news conference on mass forced cabinet resignations       Dow Jones climbs 350+ pts.       Penguins chill at the Kansas City Zoo in Missouri       Angry Bee beekeepers hive cam in Flatonia, Texas         More       Privacy Policy      Your CA Privacy Rights      Children's Online Privacy Policy      Interest-Based Ads      Terms of Use      Contact Us      Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.        Search                    Menu          Interest Successfully Added  We'll notify you here with news about AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest?    Off  On          Notifications           Notifications For Interests:         Breaking      Interests See All           To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up       Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news?     Off  On          Log In         Video    Live    Shows      Good Morning America  Good Morning America      World News Tonight  World News Tonight      Nightline  Nightline      20/20  20/20      This Week  This Week      The View  The View      What Would You Do?  What Would You Do?      ABC News Features  ABC News Features              U.S.    ABC News Features    Politics    International    Entertainment    Lifestyle    Health    Virtual Reality    Investigative    Technology    Weather    Sports       Privacy Policy Privacy Policy    Your CA Privacy Rights Your CA Privacy Rights    Children's Online Privacy Policy Children's Online Privacy Policy    Interest-Based Ads Interest-Based Ads    Terms of Use Terms of Use    Contact Us Contact Us        Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.                           What Are the Odds of Surviving a Plane Crash?     By Liz Fields  Close   Follow on Twitter   More from Liz   Mar. 12, 2014   0 Shares               Email      Star     Play Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty Images WATCH Life-Saving Statistics to Surviving a Plane Crash  0 Shares               Email      If you’re the kind of traveler whose nerves rattle along with the drinks cart every time your flight hits turbulence, you’re probably among the 40 percent of passengers who’ve experienced some fear at one time or another while flying. But beyond imaging the worst-case scenarios, what are the chances of your plane actually crashing? How likely are you to survive? The good news is that plane crashes remain extremely rare. Flying is still one of the safest methods of transportation. In fact, air experts say it’s more likely you’ll be involved in a crash driving to the airport than in one midflight. "If you take one flight a day, you would on average need to fly every day for 55,000 years before being involved in a fatal crash," M.I.T's Sloan School Statistician Arnold Barnett told ABC News. Around the world, the odds aren’t as good, but travelers would still need on average to take one flight a day for about 10,000 years before being involved in a fatal crash, Barnett said, adding the recent mystery revolving around missing Malaysian Airlines has served to make people more anxious about something that is statistically in our favor. "This is the fifth day the mystery of Malaysia plane is attracting the headlines and the cumulative effect of this quite naturally makes people nervous,” Barnett said. “If you remind people of something dangerous, it worries them, even if it’s incredibly rare.” The U.S. Department of Transportation’s comparison of accidental death risk on its website confirms that air travel featured relatively low among the list of alternative modes of transport. The DTT found Air carriers accounted for just 138 deaths a year among the general population, compared with 36,676 deaths by motor vehicle, 5,150 by large trucks and 3,112 by motorcycle over a five year average. Actually, you are far more likely to die from poisoning (15,206 deaths a year), at work (5,800) or even being electrocuted (410) than in a plane accident, the agency's research found. But for those unlucky enough to be involved in the small percent of fatal air accidents, what are the odds of survival if your plane does crash? The NTSB says that despite more people flying than ever, the accident rate for commercial flights has remained the same for the last two decades, and the survivability rate is a high 95.7 percent. The European Transport Safety Council (ETSC) has also examined the survivability of aircraft accidents worldwide, estimating that 90 percent are survivable (no passengers died) or “technically survivable," where at least one occupant survives. Most of those fatalities were a result of impact and fire-related factors including smoke inhalation after impact. The best option to maximize your chances of walking away from a plane crash is to sit up the rear end of the plane, according to crash test results conducted by scientists for Discovery TV last year. While airplane manufacturer, Boeing, claims on its website that “One seat is as safe as another,” a study by Popular Mechanics , which looked at the survival numbers from every commercial jet crash in the U.S. from 1971, found those sitting near the plane’s tail were 40 percent likelier to survive than those in the first few rows. Other tips that increase your chance of survival include bracing for impact (placing your head down and putting your hands over your head), while the FAA also advises to sit in an aisle within five rows away from an emergency exit and not to sleep during takeoff and landing, when the chances of a crash is highest. Boeing also recommends paying attention to flight attendants and dressing appropriately (“skip the short skirts, shorts and skimpy T-shirts”) in the event of an emergency. "Ultimately, it's highly unlikely you will be in a crash," said Barnett. “Whatever we find out about the Malaysian flight, this sort of thing is extraordinarily rare. You could take a flight every day in an average life span of 70-80 years and never run into trouble."       0 Shares               Email      Star      Comments     Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you.      To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up »                  What are the Odds of Surviving a Plane Crash?       + Test Reveals How to Survive Jet Crash   + 20 Tips to Surviving a Plane Crash       Trump 'less inclined' to sit down with Mueller after raid on attorney: Sources          6 killed in plane crash at famed golf course          Kim Jong Un speaks out about possible meeting with Trump for 1st time          Major warmup on the way for Midwest, Northeast           Poisoned daughter of Russian spy discharged from hospital          Fox News host returns following boycott, says liberals 'cutting off free speech'          Austin bombing suspect used a child safety sign to conceal one of his explosives          Dramatic video shows children escaping from balcony of burning building          Police officers fatally shoot man wielding screwdriver          Portland cops shot, killed alleged carjacker inside homeless shelter          Trump's homeland security adviser unexpectedly resigning          CBO: Higher deficit, stronger growth due to recent legislation          Cindy Hyde-Smith swearing in gives US Senate historic number of women          Top government ethics official writes EPA on Pruitt questions          Florida Gov. Rick Scott enters Senate race, setting up expensive contest          Frustrated teachers turn activism into candidacies for local office          Inside Jared Kushner's personal crusade to reform America's prisons          Writing, speaking, meatball subs: Justice Gorsuch's 1st year          Amid trade fight, Trump says China will do the 'right thing'          Mueller obtains search warrant for info related to 5 phone numbers          Trump's company asked Panama president to help in hotel spat          Conservative TV host resigns after Parkland survivor threat          Tuition money flows in for man who aided YouTube shooting victim          Judge finalizes $25 million for 'victims of Donald Trump's fraudulent university'          Sen. Tammy Duckworth becomes first sitting senator to give birth while in office          Police search for driver in possible road rage incident after hitting motorcyclist          Major airline association rolls out new certification for handling live animals          Stocks soar, erasing last week's loss, as trade fears ease          Frustrated teacher urges parents to stop 'coddling and enabling their children'          Mother also charged after 5-year-old allegedly killed by father          After contemplating suicide, Paige VanZant says 'MMA fighting saved my life'          'American Idol': 5 contestants go home after all-star duets          Texas governor pledges 1,000 National Guard troops to US-Mexico border          Trump, May not invited to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding          'Harry Potter' fans: Get ready to swoon over 20th anniversary edition covers          Why Michael B. Jordan is not ready to meet his namesake Michael Jordan          Comedian releases novel inspired by his Irish roots          Female high school quarterback throws TD on 1st pass in varsity game                                      search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       A Burial Pod That Safely Decomposes Bodies Beneath Trees                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                                                                                                     Premium    News    Politics    World    Sport    Technology    Business    Money    Opinion    Travel    Culture    TV Guide    Lifestyle    Fashion    Luxury    Cars    Obituaries    Video             Free Mobile App    Jobs    Financial Solutions    Rewards    Events    Dating    Offers    Shop    Garden Shop    Bookshop    Box Office    Puzzles    Fantasy Football    Work at The Telegraph    Telegraph Corporate                       Search      Video      Rewards           Upgrade to Premium                   My Account                           My details                        My newsletters           Logout         Upgrade to Premium                 Search      Video      Rewards           Subscribe - 30 days free                   Login              Register                  Search      Video      Rewards             My Account                           My details                        My newsletters           Logout                       Home    News    Sport    Business           ALL SECTIONS           Travel       Advice                 Destinations    Hotels    Offers    Holiday types    City    Beach    Tours    Cruise    Ski    Family    Advice    Luxury    Book a trip    Travel Shows     More                Cancel      All  Features  Hotels  Tours     Destinations     Features     Hotels     Tours                      Telegraph    Travel    Advice                     2016 was the second safest year in aviation history                                                                                Plane crashes are widely reported - but there's never been a safer time to fly   Credit: Nikolai Sorokin - Fotolia              Oliver Smith ,  Digital Travel Editor       29 December 2016 • 10:45am        T he recent crashes of LaMia Airlines Flight 2933 near the Colombian city of Medellín, and a Russian military jet soon after departure from Sochi, will have done little to allay the fears of nervous fliers. But, though it will come as no consolation to the friends and families of those who perished, 2016 has been one of the safest years in aviation history.  There has been a relatively small number of air accidents this year - a testament to the stringent safety standards now in place around the world. Among 2016’s other high-profile tragedies was EgyptAir Flight 804 from Paris to Cairo, which disappeared in the Mediterranean in May, killing all 66 on board, and Flydubai Flight 981 , which crashed after an aborted landing in Russia with the loss of 62 lives.              Despite a couple of recent incidents, 2016 remains one of the safest years in aviation history   Credit: Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.       According to the Aviation Safety Network (ASN), which keeps a database of all air travel incidents, 2016 was the second safest year on record. There were 19 fatal accidents this year, resulting in 325 deaths - down from 560 in 2015. Given that this year will see around 3.5 billion air passengers flown, that’s just one death per 10,769,230 travellers. Two of these 19 accidents were on flights operated by airlines on the EU “black list”.  Only one year saw fewer deaths - 2013, with 265. But with 3.048 billion boarding a plane that year, according to the World Bank’s data, this amounts to a very similar number of deaths per passenger: one per 11,501,886.    Safest years in aviation history | Deaths per total number of passengers flown       Safest years in aviation history | Total deaths     When one discounts hijackings and sabotage, 2015 was actually the safest year on record. The crashes of a Germanwings A320 in March 2015, deliberately caused by co-pilot Andreas Lubitz , and a Metrojet A321 in October , due to a suspected bomb, accounted for the majority of last year's fatalities.                  Last year also saw the fewest number of fatal crashes involving passenger aircraft - just seven. There has been 11 so far in 2016. The general trend, however - that air travel has never been safer - is easy to see.  “Since 1997 the average number of airliner accidents has shown a steady and persistent decline... thanks to the continuing efforts of international aviation organisations such as ICAO, IATA, Flight Safety Foundation and the aviation industry,” said ASN President Harro Ranter.  But what of the deadliest year in aviation history? For that, one must go back to 1972, which saw a remarkable 2,370 deaths and 72 fatal accidents. There were 11 crashes that saw at least 100 perish, including four Aeroflot flights, and others involving Iberia, Sterling Airways, Alitalia, British European Airways, Interflug, Spantax and Eastern Air Lines.    At a glance | 10 deadliest years in aviation history                 1972 was the deadliest year in aviation history       Fearful fliers should be grateful the Seventies are over. The following year, 1973, was the second deadliest on record, with 69 fatal crashes and 2,028 deaths. The carriers involved in the biggest disasters that year included Royal Jordanian, Libya Arab Airlines, Invicta International Airlines, Varig and Pan Am. And, of course, Aeroflot, which had a staggering 17 crashes that year.  And 1974 was the fourth deadliest year, with 1,989 fatalities from 68 crashes (eight involving Aeroflot). It should be noted that safety standards have improved drastically at the Russian airline since then - it hasn't been involved in a fatal accident since 1996.    At a glance | The deadliest decades in airliner history     During every year in the Seventies, there were more than 1,000 deaths, making it comfortably the deadliest decade on record (16,766 - more than twice as many as during the 2000s).    The confessions of an airline pilot                                                                     Show comments     If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in   Register  Log in    Please review our commenting policy                                    Extraordinary trips with extraordinary people    View our Exclusive Tours 2018                Read more                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:30pm     Your 20 favourite ski resorts                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:06am     Comment: Will new rules spell the end of hidden car hire charges?   Nick Trend                      04 Apr 2018 ,  10:27am     It took Italian authorities 16 months to issue my speeding fine – do I still have to pay?                  29 Mar 2018 ,  9:26am     10 tips for skiing off-piste from the freeride master                  23 Mar 2018 ,  2:23pm     14 reasons William and Kate will still be able to go skiing - even once a family of five                                Travel latest                 10 Apr 2018 ,  3:49pm     Inside the world's booziest, most bombastic literary festival              Gallery      10 Apr 2018 ,  2:37pm    Gallery: 10 of the best traditional trulli hotels in Puglia                 10 Apr 2018 ,  2:07pm     Comment: Stop being an airport snob! In defence of Luton and Stansted, the butt of all travel jokes   Hugh Morris                      10 Apr 2018 ,  1:57pm     Is this the most surprising cycling destination on Earth?                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:30pm     Your 20 favourite ski resorts                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:15pm     10 amazing ways to see Italy in 2018                  10 Apr 2018 ,  12:02pm     The world's busiest airports – Dubai inches closer to the top spot                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:46am     'First luxury hotel in space' set to welcome guests by 2022 (reservations now open)                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:29am     Highway to nowhere: 11 of the loneliest roads in the world                  10 Apr 2018 ,  10:26am     What's it really like on the world's largest cruise ship?              Gallery      10 Apr 2018 ,  9:15am    Gallery: London's 14 greatest buildings                 09 Apr 2018 ,  4:20pm     Can Athens find a way to tackle its pickpocketing epidemic?                  09 Apr 2018 ,  3:49pm     First look at La Rosière’s new €15 million ski area expansion                  09 Apr 2018 ,  3:15pm     Paradise lost: Beautiful islands ruined by tourism                  09 Apr 2018 ,  12:59pm     Why Europe's unsung culture capital should be your next city break                  09 Apr 2018 ,  12:03pm     The best way to kill time at the airport                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:40am     Jet2 is named best airline in the UK - but where does BA rank?                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:26am     20 incredible hotels in the Balearics                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:22am     New website earns travellers money back if their flight gets cheaper after booking                  09 Apr 2018 ,  11:06am     Comment: Will new rules spell the end of hidden car hire charges?   Nick Trend                      09 Apr 2018 ,  10:45am     Pillow Talk: The hottest openings, news and experiences in the world of hotels                         Contact us    About us    Rewards    Archive    Reader Prints    Branded Content    Syndication    Guidelines    Privacy    Terms and Conditions    Advertising terms         © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018                          We've noticed you're adblocking.  We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.  We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.  Thank you for your support.   Need help?  Click here for instructions   Close              Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                                                    Seeker          vr      video      space           exploration       planets       astronomy       astrophysics               more         tech       earth       health       culture          tech           robotics       artificial intelligence       gadgets       materials       transport               earth           climate       animals       conservation       energy               health           medicine       mind       biotech               culture           archaeology       history       behavior                                 Popular Searches    Tech    Space    Culture    Earth           Search      Facebook     Twitter     Youtube                Navigation         Seeker          Search                      vr      video      space     View All space    exploration    planets    astronomy    astrophysics        tech     View All tech    robotics    artificial intelligence    gadgets    materials    transport        earth     View All earth    climate    animals    conservation    energy        health     View All health    medicine    mind    biotech        culture     View All culture    archaeology    history    behavior       privacy policy   follow us  Facebook    Twitter    Youtube                                                 Exploration    How Common Are Skydiving Accidents?         By DNews   Published On 09/15/2011  11:30 AM EDT         Share on Facebook      Tweet this article       Email              Skydiving is one of the ultimate thrills you can have, provided you're not scared of jumping out of an airplane or helicopter, or generally acrophobic (which comes with the territory). Fear is obviously the main deterrent to those unadventurous types who dare not skydive, probably with the thoughts of anything that can go wrong when free-falling toward the earth from 15,000 feet. But let's cite some facts about the infrequency of skydiving accidents, so that the not-so-daring might reconsider.   First off, I'm not going to lie; accidents do happen in the sky. But they also happen on the ground, in the approximately 10 million car accidents per year, according to a report by the US Department of Transportation. About 40,000 of these accidents result in fatalities, simply for doing something that many people consider a necessary everyday activity. And are you afraid of driving or riding in a car?   Compare that against the statistics of skydiving accidents. According to the United States Parachuting Association, there are an estimated 3 million jumps per year, and the fatality count is only 21 (for 2010). That's a 0.0007% chance of dying from a skydive, compared to a 0.0167% chance of dying in a car accident (based on driving 10,000 miles). In layman's terms, you are about 24 times more likely to die in a car accident than in a skydiving one.   With that said, the answer to the question is that skydiving accidents are not common at all. And according to statistics by the US Parachuting Association, the average number of fatalities per year has been in a steady decline from decade to decade; it's almost been cut in half of what it used to be in the 1970s. So rest assured that skydiving may have its risks, but they are extremely minimal. And being someone who's been skydiving, I can tell you that running that small risk is worth it; there's nothing like the sensation of flying down the sky with the earth below you in every direction - indoor skydiving doesn't even come close. Of course, you should make sure you have a parachute or tandem guide with you, unless you're as daring as extreme skydive instructor Scott Palmer (as seen in Jackass 3D) or Red Bull-endorsing motorsports daredevil Travis Pastrana , who have both jumped out of a plane without a chute (see video below).             You may not be ready for a stunt like that, but take note: Both of them survived.   For more adrenaline-pumping content, check out The Adrenalist .          Share on Facebook      Tweet this article       Email                       Read the Comments                                         Seeker                                    Advertising    Careers    Privacy Policy    T's & C's                                                                                                                  Accessibility links   Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                                    Travel   Menu           Culture & Identity      Food & Hospitality      Adventure & Experience      Destinations      About us                                        Travel Tips     What is the safest mode of travel?                                     The sinking of the Costa Concordia shone a spotlight on the overall safety of transport. But in comparison to car accidents, plane crashes and cruise disasters are rare.           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Google+           Share by Email            Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on StumbleUpon           Share on Google+           Share by Email                   By Suemedha Sood   27 January 2012      It’s often said that driving in a car is more dangerous than flying in a plane, yet when an aeroplane crashes or a ship sinks, the nonstop media coverage that follows makes that claim hard to believe. The sinking of the Costa Concordia cruise ship this month has once
again shone a spotlight on the overall safety of
transport. But considering how rare a disaster like this is, especially in
comparison to car crashes, it raises the
question, which mode of transportation is truly the safest?  Worldwide, there were only 373 fatalities on scheduled commercial
passenger flights in 2011, according to the non-profit Aviation Safety
Network Database . And according to the International Air
Transport Association , an  airline trade organization,
there were 2.84 billion commercial passengers last year, which would roughly
mean your average odds of dying on a commercial flight were roughly one in 7.6
million in 2011.  Over the course of a lifetime, the risk increases. For
example, in a 2006 Reason magazine article , the National
Safety Council (NSC) reported that in the US the average person’s
odds of dying in a plane crash in their lifetime is about one in 5,000.  But contrast those odds to vehicular
fatalities. In the same article, the NSC reported that the odds of dying in a
car accident in the US over a lifetime was about one in 83. While the number of
global vehicle passengers and drivers may not be known, the World Health
Organization estimates that 1.2 million people die each year in road traffic accidents (roughly
half of which are pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists). So even though we drive more
than we fly, with apologies to Jack Kerouac and George Clooney, it seems that
there is basis for the claim that on the road is more dangerous than up in the
air.  While cruises are more optional than planes and
vehicle when travelling, the odds of dying are nearly as slim as flying. As
for cruise ships, the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), an
association of cruise lines, said that from 2005 to 2011 only 16 people died in cruise accidents, out of 100
million passengers, putting the odds of death over that period at one in 6.25
million. But the Costa Concordia disaster doubled that fatality number in the
early days of 2012. (The death
toll from the recent accident has currently reached 16, and there
are still at least 16 people still missing.)  However, a
new report by Reuters questions the validity of any cruise safety statistics
because there is no public database on cruise line accidents. The International
Maritime Organisation (IMO), which provides regulations for cruise ships, does not
keep complete records of marine casualties but recorded fewer than 300
incidents since 2000, while the independent website CruiseJunkie , run by sociology professor
Ross Klein
of Memorial University Newfoundland, has published reports of 644 incidents in
the same period.  Whatever the number, the
industry can always increase safety. With the investigation into the Costa
Concordia disaster, the IMO’s regulations -- which, according to Reuters, are open
to interpretation by governments, captains and operators -- are falling under
scrutiny. For instance, passengers on the Costa Concordia had not
completed a lifeboat safety drill , because ships have 24 hours after
setting sail to hold the drill. Now some in the industry are calling for cruise lines to take charge
of this protocol and require safety drills before the ships depart.  At the end of the day, you
have to get from point A to point B -- be it for business, pleasure or personal
obligations. The best you can do is take the proper precautions, sit back (or
up, if you’re driving) and relax. Here are some travel safety tips for  driving , taking public transit ,  flying and cruising . If you’re still nervous, this BBC Travel article highlights which airlines had the
safest track records in 2011, and you can learn about incidents at sea at the website CruiseJunkie.                                              Follow BBC Travel              Facebook           Twitter           Pinterest           Instagram                                                                                         Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                                        search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       A Burial Pod That Safely Decomposes Bodies Beneath Trees                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                           Home  Communities  Create  Shop                                       21 Things More Likely Than Dying In A Plane Crash  You're more likely to win an Olympic gold medal or get hit by a meteorite.     Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016                              17726  views                             17726  views          comments             With the recent disappearance of EgyptAir flight 804, the
fear of flying has reawakened within many Americans. With stories of vanishing planes in mind, Americans may find themselves wondering if something like that could happen to them. Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects roughly 20 million people worldwide, and is a very understandable fear. The idea of being left helpless in an
emergency situation that occurs 30,000 feet above the ground is terrifying. When you decide to board a
plane, you lose control over your fate. If an accident did strike, you would have
no way to help yourself or to escape the situation! Very scary stuff to think about. However, to keep things in perspective, your chances of being in a plane
crash are extremely low, 1 in 11 million , to be exact. The odds of experiencing
one of the following are much more likely. 1. Being born with an extra finger or toe 1 in 500. 2. Becoming President of the United States 1 in 10 million. ( I'll admit that your chances are slim, but it is still more likely than dying in a plane crash.) 3. Getting killed from a meteorite 1 in 700,000. 4. Giving birth to conjoined twins 1 in 200,000. 5.  Winning an Oscar 1 in 11,500. 6. Dying from a bee sting 1 in 79,842. 7. Winning an Olympic gold medal 1 in 662,000. (Assuming you can qualify for the Olympics first…) 8. Dying from a flesh-eating bacteria 1 in a million. 9. Drowning in your bathtub 1 in 840,000. 10.  Dating a millionaire 1 in 215. (Might just drop out of college and play the odds on this one.) 11. Getting murdered 1 in 18,000. 12. Getting killed by a bear at Yellowstone National Park 1 in 2.1 million. 13. Dating a supermodel 1 in 88,000. 14. Writing a New York Times bestseller 1 in 220. 15. Having your ID stolen 1 in 465. 16. Dying in a tornado 1 in 60,000. 17. Getting poisoned 1 in 1,400. 18. Dying in a skydiving accident 1 in 100,000. 19. Becoming a nudist 1 in 6,000. 20. Meeting someone who speaks Cherokee 1 in 15,000. 21. Living to 100 years old 1 in 3.      Cover Image Credit: Premium Times                               Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016          At Brigham Young University Idaho     Popular Right Now             You May Have Worn The Prom Dress With Him, But I Get To Wear The Wedding Dress   by Victoria Higgins            The End Of The Semester As Told By Joey Tribbiani   by Caleigh Pittman            To The Nursing Major   by Morgan Leigh Jackson             Welcome new, meaningful ideas to your inbox.  Sign up for our weekly newsletter.    Thank you for signing up! Check your inbox for the latest from Odyssey.  This is not a valid email, please try again.                           6 Differences Between Denmark And The United States  While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark.     Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018                             19  views                             19  views          comments         Over spring break, I traveled to the beautiful country of Denmark. While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark. Here are a list of things that I noticed were different in the United States. 1. Everything is so much more expensive. I've already talked about this a little in a previous article I have written, but when I say this place is expensive, I mean it. A bottle of water in America is around $1.50 to $2.00. I bought a bottle of water in Denmark and it was upwards to $5.00. If you are planning a trip to Denmark, make sure to budget accordingly. Make sure you figure out what you want to spend your money on. I suggest getting an Airbnb and grocery shopping for breakfasts, lunches, or dinners. Eating in restaurants will add up really quickly. Try putting that money towards museums and other entertainment. Oh, also, public transportation is amazing, but also very, very expensive. Try to use the train as little as possible. Maybe rent a car or a bike, if you're just planning on staying in Copenhagen. But, if you are traveling around the country, consider a bus. Gas prices are, you guessed it, way more expensive in Denmark. Do your research about the cheapest ways to get around, depending on the cities or towns you'd like to visit. 2. The people are friendly, but not in the way you're used to. Danish people get a horrible reputation. If you have read anything about the Danes, you've probably read they are rude and unfriendly. That is the furthest from the truth. The Danes are so willing to help and will never give you the cold shoulder. However, do not expect the overly friendly type of people you'd find in America. They are willing to give you directions and help you out if you're confused, but you must approach them first. They do not talk to strangers first but will have no problem answering a question. Just don't small talk or ask them anything too personal. They like their privacy. Also, most of the Danes speak excellent English, so there is no trouble there. 3. The food is... interesting. I didn't hate the food. I actually liked the food a lot more than the food in Ireland, but it is not Italian cuisine. A lot of fish, egg, and mayo. Oh, and hotdogs. Don't be afraid to try it. Trust me, it is not as bad as it looks. I had a burger with what is called "red salad," which is just basically cranberries. Yes, you heard right. A burger with cranberries. Also, there was no beef on this burger. It was a type of slimy pork. It wasn't the best thing I have ever had, but it was an experience nevertheless. If you ever visit, you have to try the open faced sandwiches! The Danes swear by them. 4. Teenagers are allowed to drink and they are allowed to drink on the streets. The drinking age in Denmark is 15. Which means you'll get to see teenagers running around with beer cans just on the street. Denmark doesn't have a law against drinking in public, so it is completely legal and normal. Don't get too freaked out. I was in Aalborg and saw a group of people playing a drinking game right in a public park. You don't have to join the trend, but just try to act as normal as possible around it. The Danes think it's rude if you stare or are too judgmental. 5. Bikes are everywhere. In any of the major cities: Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg, etc, you will see more bikes than cars. So much so, there is a specific bike lane for bikers. It is the size of a road. Biking is the cheapest and fastest way to get around in Denmark. Plus, everyone really does care about the environment. Bikes has just become the most used form of transportation. When in Copenhagen, rent a bike. It is the best way to see the city. Remember to look for bikes too! They go faster than the cars and will not be happy about you walking in the bike lane. It is not a sidewalk. 6. Denmark is so safe. I'm not saying America isn't safe, but what I am saying, is people in Denmark leave their babies outside in a stroller while they are in a restaurant and this is normal. Their baby. Outside. And they aren't worried about someone kidnapping them. That is how safe this place is. Story time: I lost my wallet while I was in Aarhus. I got a call from Kent State the next day saying someone had found it and wanted to return in. A Dane literally contacted Kent State after seeing my flashcard wanting to return my wallet, which had cash and my credit cards in it. When I got it back, everything was still inside. Including old receipts. When I say this place is safe, I mean it's safe. Denmark is such a beautiful country and if you ever have the chance, visit. It's worth the many pennies.    Cover Image Credit: Photo by Max Adulyanukosol on Unsplash    Keep Reading                        Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018          At Kent State University       Related Content                      A Letter To Who We Can't Forget No Matter How Hard We Try   by Alyssa Taylor            4 Haunted Places In America   by Aubrielle Cuccuini            Poetry On Odyssey: "Eiffel"   by Kaitlyn Eichenbaum          Connect with a generation of new voices.  We are students, thinkers, influencers, and communities sharing our ideas with the world. Join our platform to create and discover content that actually matters to you.  Learn more  Start Creating                The Ultimate Travel Guide: Prague  Thinking about visiting the Czech Republic's iconical capital city? Here's what you need to know.     Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018                             216  views                             216  views          comments         A beautiful and unique city known for everything ranging from its rich history to its active nightlife, Prague is a gem in the heart of the Czech Republic that cannot be missed. Located in the northwest of the Czech Republic, Prague has a beauty that can only be understood by traveling to the city itself. Before starting my trip to Europe, I asked the advice of several other travelers about which destinations they recommend that I travel to. High on the list of many of these travelers was Prague. With so many recommendations, I simply had to visit. But what makes this city such a favorite among both travelers and its inhabitants? To start with, I found the people of the Czech Republic to be very kind to their visitors; they wanted to share the country that they love so much with anyone who is willing to take the time to visit. As far as activities go, exploring Prague without a map was one of my favorite experiences in the city. The day I arrived, I decided to wander around in search of food. In the process, I was able to get a glimpse of some of the famous architecture around the city, as well as some of its most iconic sights. After returning to my hostel, I was able to do some research into the history of these locations while also planning out the places I wanted to spend more time with. As far as specific attractions go, Prague is a perfect city to visit no matter your time frame. With that being said, a few of the most prominent and worthwhile attractions include the Charles Bridge, all of Old Town, Wenceslas Square, Petrin Hills, and Prague Castle. The main sights can be seen in a tour around the city in a day (which requires a ton of walking), but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t spend any more time there. Now let’s pretend you have just arrived in Prague and you are eager to see everything you can in just one walking journey. Doing this, I would suggest starting in Wenceslas Square and walking down the slope towards Old Town. A walk through Old Town takes you through the picturesque streets of Prague, while also allowing you to visit the Astronomical Tower, the Old Town Square, and St. Nicolas’ Church; all of which are well worth it if you find yourself in Prague. After seeing these iconic sights, wandering towards the Jewish Quarter of the city provides an opportunity to learn some of the history of the city through the years. From there, walk towards the river to see the concert hall known as Rudolfinum while listening to music written by Czech composers that you might not recognize by name, but you will recognize by their music. Walk along the Vltava River towards the Charles Bridge where you should take your time to take in the atmosphere and the unique architecture of the bridge as well as the views of Old Town and Prague Castle as they face off across the river. This walk brings you to the other side of the river where you can see the somewhat surprising Lennon Wall as well as taking a trip to Prague Castle. This walking trip provides an opportunity to see most major sights in Prague. Like with any city, it is possible to go into more detail if you so desire, and Prague is a city that deserves that extra attention. There are museums and historical sites littered throughout the city, and they are not hard to find. I visited the National Technical Museum in a quieter part of the city and I was blown away by the size and level of detail that the museum provided. Anyone with enough interest could spend a full day exploring every detail. In addition to that, the Jewish museum in the Jewish Quarter is well known and has the reputation of being very good, but I did not have the time to visit it, unfortunately. The Prague Castle allows for entry that is free of charge, but a ticket is required to visit some parts of the complex. Purchase of this ticket depends on the level of detail you wish to go into, and the amount of time you have to spend there. The activity that I highly recommend is taking a trip to the Petrin Hills where you can buy a ticket to ascend Petrin Tower where the views of the city are simply breathtaking. These examples stand as just a few options for ideas on how to make your trip to Prague as complete as you can want. After taking a walk around the city to see all of the sights, taking the public transportation provides for a welcome rest from all of the walking. The transportation is cheap and cost is based on time which makes it perfect for travelers who want unlimited travel for just a few days. As far as additional public transportation goes, taxis can be found throughout the city, but be sure to find a good price. In many instances, getting an Uber will be far more convenient and allow for the best possible price. The Czech Republic is a beautiful country and its capital city is the culmination of the country’s beauty. Prague is a city that should be on every traveler’s list for its uniqueness, its culture, and its people.    Cover Image Credit: Jacob Mitchener   Keep Reading                        Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018          At University of Maryland College Park       Related Content                          The Value Of Travel Is Not In The Pretty Pictures We Take   by Linnea Shapter            Terror Within The Walls: Hauntings Of Eastern State Penitentiary   by Grace Kinnicutt            Everyone Should Go To Osaka To Find Some Peace And Quiet   by Erin O’Donnell                           Facebook Comments            Home  Communities  Create  Shop   Apply to create for Odyssey    About Odyssey  Service Desk  Careers  Odyssey Community  Terms of Service  DMCA Report  Privacy Policy  Copyright Policy                     Elite Daily Bad Robot The Odds Of A Plane Crash Are One In 11 Million, Yet You're Still Afraid By John Haltiwanger Mar 25 2015 Share Are you flying somewhere today? Feeling somewhat nervous about it? You have absolutely no reason to be worried; probability is on your side. Grab some peanuts, put your headphones in, sit back and relax. The airplane has revolutionized our existence. It has cut journeys that used to take weeks and months into just a few hours. It's also extremely safe, but people continue to fear it. A recent plane crash in the French Alps may have increased people's anxieties. Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed on Tuesday not long before 11 am. Tragically, everyone on board, 144 passengers and six crew members, died in the process. Germanwings is now a trending topics on social media and will undoubtedly continue to be discussed in the coming weeks. Along with "Pretty Little Liars" and Angelina Jolie, it's currently one of the top subjects people are searching for, Google Trends reveals . We are both terrified of and fascinated by death, particularly when it happens in unusual ways. The likelihood of dying in a plane crash (or even being in one) is so slim it's almost pointless to quantify. According to The Economist , the probability of your plane going down is around one in 5.4 million. Other reports place the odds closer to one in 11 million . To put this into perspective, you are far more likely to be struck by lightning or attacked by a shark than you are to die in a plane crash. And there are even more common things that kill decidedly more frequently, including the flu . Traveling by car is 100 times more deadly than hopping on a plane. Not to mention, statistically, it's never been safer to fly . Perhaps this helps explain why we become so captivated by plane crashes when they do occur; they're just so incredibly rare. At the same time, media coverage of these sorts of events is undeniably excessive and hyperbolic. This trend is driven by a desire for increased viewership and profits. Does this say more about the media or more about us? It's a two-way street: Major news networks consistently report on tragedies because they know the public will pay attention. In 2014, plane crashes often dominated the news. From the mysterious disappearance of MH370 to the tragic crash of Air Asia Flight 8501 in December, there were eight fatal plane crashes over the course of the year. In total, commercial airline accidents killed 992 people across the globe in 2014, the most since 2005, Vice reports . But if you look at data surrounding airplane crashes in a broader sense, they have decreased exponentially over time, as highlighted by the Guardian . And at this point last year, there had already been 33 plane crashes . As of the Germanwings crash, the number for 2015 stands at 17 . It's also very telling that in 2014, airplane crashes received 43 percent more media attention than the 1.24 million ground traffic fatalities that occur across the world every year, as noted by the Washington Post. Interestingly, research has shown that the habitual coverage of plane crashes hasn't necessarily served to increase fears of flying , but it certainly hasn't helped deter them, either . Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects around 6.5 percent of the population, ABC news reports . A survey from Chapman University suggests that 43 percent of people have at least some fear of flying, and around 9 percent are so afraid they won't even step foot on a plane. The fear is so ubiquitous there's even an iPhone app called "Am I Going Down?," which helps calculate how likely it is your flight will crash. Thankfully, it usually helps reveal how low the probability is: With that said, none of this information will serve to comfort the loved ones of those who died on the Germanwings flight. Perhaps they would find some relief, however, if they weren't inundated with images of the place those closest to them perished. Should there be a discussion surrounding why this plane crashed? Absolutely. But that doesn't require 24/7 coverage of the crash site. At any given moment over the course of the next 24 hours, people will die from poverty, famine, disease, war and other forms of abhorrent violence. Simultaneously, we face the ongoing effects of climate change and inequality. Perhaps we should refocus our obsession onto these kinds of issues. It would be nice to live in a world where issues are granted attention based on their everyday impact and imminence, rather than their potential to generate profits in correlation with the whims of a fickle public. Maybe that's just wishful thinking, but it's certainly still something to think about. Citations: Why Are We So Obsessed With Plane Crashes (Vice) , Aircraft accident rates at historic low despite high profile plane crashes (The Guardian ) , Germanwings plane crash What we know so far (CNN) , Theres an app to calculate the odds of your plane crashing (Quartz) , How safe is air travel really (The Guardian) , A crash course in probability (The Economist) , Fear of flying some good things to know (ABC News) , After Air Algerie AH5017 Incident A Statistical Look At The Probability And Chances of Dying In A Plane Crash (International Business Times) , Flash Facts About Lightning (National Geographic) , Shark Attack Facts (National Geographic ) , Deaths and Mortality (CDC) , Lots of Americans fear flying But not because of plane crashes (Washington Post) Homepage Fashion & Beauty News Entertainment Life Dating Video Company About Contact Newsletter Terms Privacy          Information is Beautiful information is beautiful Reduce Your Chances of Dying in a Plane Crash Sections about blog data books training contact  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Connect facebook twitter instagram pinterest RSS feed facebook twitter instagram RSS feed Search Search E.g: Billion dollar-o-gram Based on a true story Mountains out of molehills Categories interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Popular Rhetological Fallacies - A list of Logical Fallacies & Rhetorical Devices with examples What Streaming Music Services Pay World's Best Hangover Cure? Biggest Fake News Stories of 2017 Ikigai - Japanese concept to enhance work, life & sense of worth Cause Célèbre - Gender Split Behind Celebrity Charitable Giving & Causes Best Albums of 2017: The Consensus: Infographic Star Wars 'Last Jedi': One of the Biggest Rotten Tomatoes Audience vs Critics Score Splits Ever UK's Brexit Divorce Bill-ions Tooth & Law - What's halal? What's kosher? The UK's Brexit Options in the Eurozone Landscape - Visualized UK Government Spending - Incomes & Outcomes  Follow  Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Enter your email address to get spam-free viz updates straight to your inbox!  License this image → Follow us on Facebook → Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Share this  Facebook  3,204  Twitter   StumbleUpon  6,254  Pinterest  141  Reddit  1 Email Related visualizations Mavericks & Heretics What is Consciousness Cocktails – Interactive Oil Well – Static Version Extreme Global Warming Solutions Currently on the Table Making data into art Sources The Guardian Datablog: Most Popular Airliners , Ascend Worldwide , AviationSafety.net , Wikipedia: List Of Accidents On Commercial Airliners , Flowing Data: Safest Seat To Sit In See the data http://bit.ly/IIB_PlaneCrash Subjects how to science Older Drugs World  Newer Caffeine and Calories  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Knowledge is Beautiful: "Thought-provoking as well as startlingly attractive" - Wall Street Journal Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Menu Home About Contact Our Picks Living data Buy our books Interactive More IIB Awards David McCandless VizSweet Follow  Information is Beautiful © 2007 — 2018     Topics Sections Latest updates Leaders Briefing United States The Americas Asia China Middle East and Africa Europe Britain International Business Finance and economics Science and technology Books and arts Obituary Special reports Technology Quarterly Debates Blogs Bagehot’s notebook Buttonwood’s notebook Democracy in America Erasmus Free exchange Game theory Graphic detail Gulliver Kaffeeklatsch Prospero The Economist explains Current edition More Apps & Digital Editions The Economist apps Espresso Global Business Review World in Figures Other Publications 1843 Magazine The World In The World If From The Economist Group Events Online GMAT prep Online GRE prep Executive Education Navigator Which MBA Jobs Board Learning.ly The Economist Store The Economist Intelligence Unit The Economist Corporate Network Media Audio edition Economist Films Economist Radio About The Economist Subscribe Log in or sign up Manage subscription E-mail address Password Keep me logged in Forgot password? Log In New to  The Economist ? Sign up now Activate your digital subscription Manage your subscription Renew your subscription Search Topics Latest updates Leaders Briefing United States The Americas Asia China Middle East and Africa Europe Britain International Business Finance and economics Science and technology Books and arts Obituary Special reports Technology Quarterly Debates Blogs Bagehot’s notebook Buttonwood’s notebook Democracy in America Erasmus Free exchange Game theory Graphic detail Gulliver Kaffeeklatsch Prospero The Economist explains Current edition Audio edition Economist Films Economist Radio The Economist apps More The Economist apps Espresso Global Business Review World in Figures Events Online GMAT prep Online GRE prep Executive Education Navigator Which MBA Jobs Board Learning.ly The Economist Store The Economist Intelligence Unit The Economist Corporate Network About The Economist Subscribe Gulliver Business travel Air safety A crash course in probability Gulliver Jan 29th 2015 by B.R. GULLIVER will soon fly from Heathrow to Milan on a British Airways Airbus A319. That flight has a one-in-4.8m chance of crashing. Shortly after he is jetting from Heathrow to JFK on a Virgin-operated A330. Chance of crashing? One in 5.4m. That means that he could apparently expect to fly on the route for 14,716 years before plummeting into the Atlantic. Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks. Latest stories An update from Jeremy Grantham Buttonwood’s notebook 27 minutes ago Gulf Air tries to reclaim its crown Gulliver 8 hours ago Viktor Orban maintains firm control of the Hungarian Parliament Graphic detail 21 hours ago Why is Mark Zuckerberg testifying in Congress? The Economist explains a day ago Homo sapiens spread to Asia earlier than once believed Science and technology a day ago $15m is available to solve a burning problem Science and technology a day ago See more These figures come courtesy of “Am I Going Down?”, a recently released iPhone app that claims to calculate the odds of a disaster on a particular flight. Users input three variables: the departure and arrival airports, the airline, and the type of plane used. The app's maker hasn't responded to requests to give a little more detail of its methodology, but one presumes that it is a simple weighting of the proportion of crashes associated with each of those variables in the past. There are, of course, countless holes in such a simplistic approach. How does one decide the relative importance of the make of plane, airline or airport? Is past performance really an indicator of future performance? Does, for example, a Malaysia Airlines flight being shot out of the sky by Russian separatists make this event any more likely to happen again in the future? Is the calculation based on miles flown or the number of journeys? (As the take-off is the most dangerous phase of a flight, a 10,000 mile flight isn't twice as risky as a 5,000 mile one.) What about other important variables, such as the weather? The 14,716 years figure caused us a bit of confusion. But reader guest-isjswsa jumped in on the comments thread to shed some light on it. It’s the average length of time people will fly before crashing, if lots and lots of them do it every day. An alternative way of expressing it would be to say that if you were to arrange to fly this route every day for the next 10,210 years, your chance of dying would be 50%. And if you wanted to book enough flights to be almost certain of crashing, you reach a 99% probability at 67,833 years of daily flights. (For those interested in the maths, there is more here .) But perhaps this is a bit churlish. The idea behind the app is laudable, if not mathematically sound. Nic Johns, its creator, says he wants to reassure nervous flyers that they are all but guaranteed to reach their destination in one piece. Of course, we all know this deep down. In real terms, it makes no difference if the chance of crashing is one in 1m or one in 9m; the likelihood is so small as to make the difference irrelevant. But there is a special place in our psyches for the fear of big, unlikely catastrophes. According to David Ropeik , author of " How Risky is it, Really? ", the deadliest plane crash in history occurred in 1977 in Tenerife when 583 people were killed after two jumbos collided on the runway. Yet, that many people die from heart disease in America every eight hours. As Mr Ropeik explains, air crashes are considered catastrophes while heart attacks are not, because they fulfil three criteria: A catastrophe has to be big, it has to happen all at once, and something about it has to be calamitous—disastrous—really bad. A plane crash certainly qualifies. It kills a lot of people all at once, in one place, and in a really horrific way. But heart disease [...] meets only one of those criteria. As awful as heart disease and stroke and diabetes are, they don't kill people in such vividly awful ways as plane crashes. It bears repeating just how rare such deaths in the air are. Safety statistics collated by IATA , an airline association, show that in 2013 more than 3 billion people flew on commercial aircraft. During that time there were 81 accidents and 210 fatalities. What is more, this figure has been falling for years (although the two recent Malaysia Airlines disasters will mean a blip when the 2014 figures are released). By way of comparison, the World Health Organisation says there were over 1.2m road traffic deaths around the world in 2010 . It is the leading cause of death among 15-29 year olds. The University of Oxford calculates that in 2006, Brits had odds of one in 36,512 of dying in a motor accident and one in 3.5m dying in a plane crash. Of course, many more people drive than fly; hence it is not easy to compare the two types of travel in a meaningful way. It is not known how many car journeys people take around the world, but even if it was, one would have to decide whether to compare the number of discrete trips or the overall distance travelled (that is an important distinction because if you were travelling from London to Edinburgh, for example, you might reasonably choose between driving and flying). Suffice to say what we all know: the fear of flying is incommensurate with its risk. And, as this chart from an Economist  piece last year highlights, that’s before we compare it to the really dangerous modes of transport, like using stairs. Update: This blog post was updated in 30/1/15 to include readers' explanations of how "Am I Going Down" seems to have calculated its odds Gulliver Jan 29th 2015 by B.R. Reuse this content About The Economist The Economist explains Why is Mark Zuckerberg testifying in Congress? It is likely to get uncomfortable for Facebook's boss The Economist explains Steppe sons A new study squelches a treasured theory about Indians’ origins Asia Horror in Syria America vows to respond to a suspected chemical attack in Syria Middle East and Africa Two Ma race Online retailers go offline in China Business and finance Tell us what you think of Economist.com Leave feedback Need assistance with your subscription? Contact us Subscribe Contact us Help Keep updated Subscribe to The Economist newsletters Sign up to get more from The Economist Get 3 free articles per week, daily 
 newsletters and more. About The Economist Advertise Reprints Careers Media Centre Published since September 1843 to take part in “a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.”  Terms of Use Privacy Cookies Accessibility Modern Slavery Statement Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited 2018 . All rights reserved.                    Skip to main content.                        SUBSCRIBE NOW to get home delivery             News   Sports   Life   Money   Tech   Travel   Opinion     Weather     Games   Scores   Stocks   Video     More       Photo Galleries   Your Take   Interactives   Newsletters & Alerts   Best-Selling Books   Newsstand   USA Weekend   Apps   College   Classifieds     Games   Scores   Stocks   Video    Default View Big Page       Search   ☰                Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?    Travel Tips    Aurelio Locsin, Leaf Group          Is flying safer than driving?   (Photo: Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Alberto P. Veiga )      Related Articles   What Are the Dangers of Transatlantic Flights?  Advantages of Air Travel  Symptoms of Equilibrium Loss in Air Travel  Airplane Travel Safety     You may think that traveling by plane is inherently more dangerous than driving an automobile. After all, an air crash is catastrophic, with more loss of life, injury and property damage than a car accident. A few U.S. government statistics can shed light on this question.          Driving  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration compiles and researches accident statistics for the entire country. Its 2008 Traffic Safety Facts Data boils down the millions of accidents and other statistics to 1.27 fatalities per 100 million vehicle miles traveled. In contrast, the 1998 rate was 1.58 fatalities per 100 million miles.   Flying  The National Transportation Safety Board compiles aviation accident data. Preliminary statistics for 2008 show only 20 accidents for U.S. air carriers operating scheduled service. This works out to nearly zero accidents per million flying miles. No one died, and only five people were seriously injured.   Comparisons  In absolute numbers, driving is more dangerous, with more than 5 million accidents compared to 20 accidents in flying. A more direct comparison per 100 million miles pits driving's 1.27 fatalities and 80 injuries against flying's lack of deaths and almost no injuries, which again shows air travel to be safer.   Odds  The National Safety Council compiled an odds-of-dying table for 2008, which further illustrates the relative risks of flying and driving safety. It calculated the odds of dying in a motor vehicle accident to be 1 in 98 for a lifetime. For air and space transport (including air taxis and private flights), the odds were 1 in 7,178 for a lifetime, according to the table.   Conclusion  Statistically speaking, flying is far safer than driving. However, it may feel more dangerous because risk perception is based on more than facts, according to David Ropeik, risk communication instructor at Harvard School of Public Health. Driving affords more personal control, making it feel safer. In addition, plane crashes are catastrophic, killing more people at once, which grabs more attention and makes people more sensitive to them. Car crashes happen every day and spread the loss over time, making their combined effects less noticeable.               References  NHTSA.DOT.gov: 2008 Traffic Safety Facts NTSB.gov: 1989-2008 Aviation Accident Statistics NTSB.gov: 1989-2008 Passenger Injuries    Resources  NSC.org: Odds of Dying PBS.org: How Risky Is Flying?    About the Author  Aurelio Locsin has been writing professionally since 1982. He published his first book in 1996 and is a frequent contributor to many online publications, specializing in consumer, business and technical topics. Locsin holds a Bachelor of Arts in scientific and technical communications from the University of Washington.    Leaf Group is a USA TODAY content partner providing general travel information. Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.    Photo Credits   Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Alberto P. Veiga          icon for annotation tool             Cite this Article  Choose Citation Style  MLA  APA  Chicago (B)   Locsin, Aurelio. "Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?" Travel Tips - USA Today , http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html. Accessed 10 April 2018.  Locsin, Aurelio. (n.d.). Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel? Travel Tips - USA Today . Retrieved from http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html  Locsin, Aurelio. "Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?" accessed April 10, 2018. http://traveltips.usatoday.com/air-travel-safer-car-travel-1581.html   Copy Citation  Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.                     More Articles   Sea Sickness After a Cruise  Air Travel Vs. Car Travel  How to Take the Fear Out of Flying  Airlines Firearm Rules  What Happens If Your Flight Is Cancelled for Your Vacation and You Have Insurance?  List of the Safest Airlines        Travel Tips Articles   The History of Airline Industry  Why Aren't Cell Phones Allowed on Planes?  Advantages of Flight Travel  What Is the Altitude of a Plane in Flight?  The Effects of 9/11 on the Airline Industry  How to Compare Air Miles to Land Miles  Is it Safe to Travel During the First Month of Pregnancy?  The Safest Seats in an Airplane        This story is part of Travel Tips       Travel Tips  »   Travel Tips »  Travel Preparation & Accommodations »  Car Travel Planning »  Car Travel »   Is Air Travel Safer Than Car Travel?                    What Are the Dangers of Transatlantic Flights?            Advantages of Air Travel                                         share        Trending         Tech  #WhoaScience            Tech  #WhoaScience   Mar 14, 2017 @ 12:10 PM           If My Airplane Crashes, What Are My Chances Of Survival?                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Quora    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.                    Photographer: Gill Allen/Bloomberg News      What are the chances of surviving in a plane crash? originally appeared on Quora : the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world .  Answer by Tom Farrier , Retired USAF rescue helicopter pilot; current aviation safety contractor (UAS), on Quora :  Ignore Hollywood. Aircraft involved in crashes are safer than at any time in history, thanks to decades of experience, research, and safety enhancements. According to Aviation Safety Network , in 2016 there were about one hundred and sixty three aviation “accidents” worldwide, including those involving business jets and military transports as well as jet and propeller airliners. A grand total of twenty-four resulted in fatalities, meaning only about 15% of all accidents in this grouping — which themselves are extremely rare events — actually resulted in lives being lost.    (FYI, only five of the fatal 2016 accidents were in the U.S, and none involved a major U.S. air carrier.)  Consider four possible outcomes to any crash:   You survive a survivable accident;  You survive a non-survivable accident;   You don’t survive a survivable accident; or  You don’t survive a non-survivable accident.   So, what the heck is a “survivable accident,” anyway? Well, to synthesize a couple of different takes on the subject, most in the aviation safety business (as well as those interested in other types of vehicle safety), look for three conditions:   The forces encountered by human occupants were within the limits of human tolerance;  The structure surrounding occupants remains substantially intact, maintaining an uncompromised volume around them; and  The post-crash environment does not present an immediate threat to occupants or rescuers.   In practical terms, this means directing forces away from people, slowing the onset of those that can’t be re-directed, preventing internal structures from failing in such a way as to stuck into the area where the carbon-based life forms are, and keeping the fire, smoke and fumes from easily starting or readily spreading. On this basis, you can see that a smoking hole in the ground is non-survivable, and there’s always a possibility that a small number of people don’t get the full benefit of protections that rendered the overall accident to be considered “survivable.” But, there are many, many examples to the contrary in events classified as “accidents” due to property damage and/or major injuries experienced in them.  In February of 2001, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board released the results of a comprehensive review of air carrier safety. They noted, “Fatal accidents such as TWA flight 800, ValuJet flight 592, and EgyptAir 990 receive extensive media coverage. Nonfatal accidents, however, often receive little coverage. As a result, the public may perceive that most air carrier accidents are not survivable. In fact, the Board's study shows that since 1983, more than 95% of the passengers survived.” (That includes accident where, given the criteria above, the accident itself should have been considered “non-survivable.)  A large contributor to this record goes to the many improvements the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration required of air carriers over time. These included:   Improved seat cushions with reduced flammability.  Floor proximity emergency escape path marking.  Lavatory smoke detectors.  Lavatory fire extinguishers.  Halon fire extinguishers.  Improved interior materials.  Cargo compartment liners.  Cargo compartment fire detection/suppression.  Thermal/acoustic insulation.  16G seats.  Improved access to certain types of exits.   (These are expanded upon in a graphic available at FAA Fact Sheet: Improvements to Aircraft Survivability ).  If you keep passengers properly restrained until the noise dies down and the movement stops, you reduce the likelihood of a fire starting in the first place, you delay its propagation, and you make the by-products of burning stuff less toxic, you have a much better chance of keeping everybody alive.  This was Air France 358, following a landing that went bad at Toronto-Pearson International Airport in 2005:  (Photo: CBS.com )   (Photo: blogto.com )  Everybody lived.  This was Asiana Airlines 214, which hit the sea wall in front of the runway touchdown zone on short final to San Francisco International on July 6, 2013:  (Photo: KTVU.com )  People were ejected from this aircraft during its post-impact tumble and break-up, but two of the only three people who died were accidentally struck by first responders in the confusion. There were many significant injuries suffered by the crew and passengers, but the aircraft did what it was supposed to do under extreme conditions — it protected its occupants as well as it possibly could, and it didn’t allow fire to spread until there was time to get everyone evacuated.  Bottom line: accidents are rare; when they happen, fatalities are that much rarer thanks to a lot of hard work and investment in making planes as safe as possible.  This question originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter , Facebook , and Google+ . More questions:   Airplanes : What happens when someone dies on a plane?  Air Travel : Why do airliners have engines under the wings rather than inside the fuselage?  Aviation Accidents and Incidents : What happened to the Flight MH370?                  Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                              Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                  Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                                       Sections       Sections      Top Stories      Watch      U.S.      International      Politics      ABC News Features      Lifestyle      Entertainment      Virtual Reality      Health      Technology      Investigative      Sports      Weather        Shows       Shows      Good Morning America      World News Tonight      Nightline      20/20      This Week      The View      What Would You Do?      ABC News Features        Live       Live      Soon: White House press briefing       Soon: Senate Republicans address media       Soon: Atlanta Mayor holds news conference on mass forced cabinet resignations       Dow Jones climbs 350+ pts.       Penguins chill at the Kansas City Zoo in Missouri       Angry Bee beekeepers hive cam in Flatonia, Texas         More       Privacy Policy      Your CA Privacy Rights      Children's Online Privacy Policy      Interest-Based Ads      Terms of Use      Contact Us      Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.        Search                    Menu          Interest Successfully Added  We'll notify you here with news about AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest?    Off  On          Notifications           Notifications For Interests:         Breaking      Interests See All           To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up       Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news?     Off  On          Log In         Video    Live    Shows      Good Morning America  Good Morning America      World News Tonight  World News Tonight      Nightline  Nightline      20/20  20/20      This Week  This Week      The View  The View      What Would You Do?  What Would You Do?      ABC News Features  ABC News Features              U.S.    ABC News Features    Politics    International    Entertainment    Lifestyle    Health    Virtual Reality    Investigative    Technology    Weather    Sports       Privacy Policy Privacy Policy    Your CA Privacy Rights Your CA Privacy Rights    Children's Online Privacy Policy Children's Online Privacy Policy    Interest-Based Ads Interest-Based Ads    Terms of Use Terms of Use    Contact Us Contact Us        Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.                           What Are the Odds of Surviving a Plane Crash?     By Liz Fields  Close   Follow on Twitter   More from Liz   Mar. 12, 2014   0 Shares               Email      Star     Play Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty Images WATCH Life-Saving Statistics to Surviving a Plane Crash  0 Shares               Email      If you’re the kind of traveler whose nerves rattle along with the drinks cart every time your flight hits turbulence, you’re probably among the 40 percent of passengers who’ve experienced some fear at one time or another while flying. But beyond imaging the worst-case scenarios, what are the chances of your plane actually crashing? How likely are you to survive? The good news is that plane crashes remain extremely rare. Flying is still one of the safest methods of transportation. In fact, air experts say it’s more likely you’ll be involved in a crash driving to the airport than in one midflight. "If you take one flight a day, you would on average need to fly every day for 55,000 years before being involved in a fatal crash," M.I.T's Sloan School Statistician Arnold Barnett told ABC News. Around the world, the odds aren’t as good, but travelers would still need on average to take one flight a day for about 10,000 years before being involved in a fatal crash, Barnett said, adding the recent mystery revolving around missing Malaysian Airlines has served to make people more anxious about something that is statistically in our favor. "This is the fifth day the mystery of Malaysia plane is attracting the headlines and the cumulative effect of this quite naturally makes people nervous,” Barnett said. “If you remind people of something dangerous, it worries them, even if it’s incredibly rare.” The U.S. Department of Transportation’s comparison of accidental death risk on its website confirms that air travel featured relatively low among the list of alternative modes of transport. The DTT found Air carriers accounted for just 138 deaths a year among the general population, compared with 36,676 deaths by motor vehicle, 5,150 by large trucks and 3,112 by motorcycle over a five year average. Actually, you are far more likely to die from poisoning (15,206 deaths a year), at work (5,800) or even being electrocuted (410) than in a plane accident, the agency's research found. But for those unlucky enough to be involved in the small percent of fatal air accidents, what are the odds of survival if your plane does crash? The NTSB says that despite more people flying than ever, the accident rate for commercial flights has remained the same for the last two decades, and the survivability rate is a high 95.7 percent. The European Transport Safety Council (ETSC) has also examined the survivability of aircraft accidents worldwide, estimating that 90 percent are survivable (no passengers died) or “technically survivable," where at least one occupant survives. Most of those fatalities were a result of impact and fire-related factors including smoke inhalation after impact. The best option to maximize your chances of walking away from a plane crash is to sit up the rear end of the plane, according to crash test results conducted by scientists for Discovery TV last year. While airplane manufacturer, Boeing, claims on its website that “One seat is as safe as another,” a study by Popular Mechanics , which looked at the survival numbers from every commercial jet crash in the U.S. from 1971, found those sitting near the plane’s tail were 40 percent likelier to survive than those in the first few rows. Other tips that increase your chance of survival include bracing for impact (placing your head down and putting your hands over your head), while the FAA also advises to sit in an aisle within five rows away from an emergency exit and not to sleep during takeoff and landing, when the chances of a crash is highest. Boeing also recommends paying attention to flight attendants and dressing appropriately (“skip the short skirts, shorts and skimpy T-shirts”) in the event of an emergency. "Ultimately, it's highly unlikely you will be in a crash," said Barnett. “Whatever we find out about the Malaysian flight, this sort of thing is extraordinarily rare. You could take a flight every day in an average life span of 70-80 years and never run into trouble."       0 Shares               Email      Star      Comments     Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you.      To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up »                  What are the Odds of Surviving a Plane Crash?       + Test Reveals How to Survive Jet Crash   + 20 Tips to Surviving a Plane Crash       Trump 'less inclined' to sit down with Mueller after raid on attorney: Sources          6 killed in plane crash at famed golf course          Kim Jong Un speaks out about possible meeting with Trump for 1st time          Major warmup on the way for Midwest, Northeast           Poisoned daughter of Russian spy discharged from hospital          Fox News host returns following boycott, says liberals 'cutting off free speech'          Austin bombing suspect used a child safety sign to conceal one of his explosives          Dramatic video shows children escaping from balcony of burning building          Police officers fatally shoot man wielding screwdriver          Portland cops shot, killed alleged carjacker inside homeless shelter          Trump's homeland security adviser unexpectedly resigning          CBO: Higher deficit, stronger growth due to recent legislation          Cindy Hyde-Smith swearing in gives US Senate historic number of women          Top government ethics official writes EPA on Pruitt questions          Florida Gov. Rick Scott enters Senate race, setting up expensive contest          Frustrated teachers turn activism into candidacies for local office          Inside Jared Kushner's personal crusade to reform America's prisons          Writing, speaking, meatball subs: Justice Gorsuch's 1st year          Amid trade fight, Trump says China will do the 'right thing'          Mueller obtains search warrant for info related to 5 phone numbers          Trump's company asked Panama president to help in hotel spat          Conservative TV host resigns after Parkland survivor threat          Tuition money flows in for man who aided YouTube shooting victim          Judge finalizes $25 million for 'victims of Donald Trump's fraudulent university'          Sen. Tammy Duckworth becomes first sitting senator to give birth while in office          Police search for driver in possible road rage incident after hitting motorcyclist          Major airline association rolls out new certification for handling live animals          Stocks soar, erasing last week's loss, as trade fears ease          Frustrated teacher urges parents to stop 'coddling and enabling their children'          Mother also charged after 5-year-old allegedly killed by father          After contemplating suicide, Paige VanZant says 'MMA fighting saved my life'          'American Idol': 5 contestants go home after all-star duets          Texas governor pledges 1,000 National Guard troops to US-Mexico border          Trump, May not invited to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding          'Harry Potter' fans: Get ready to swoon over 20th anniversary edition covers          Why Michael B. Jordan is not ready to meet his namesake Michael Jordan          Comedian releases novel inspired by his Irish roots          Female high school quarterback throws TD on 1st pass in varsity game            