                              800.223.2273    MyChart    Need help?    From out of town?    Giving    Careers    Search         Menu   Search      Cleveland Clinic Menu     ClevelandClinic.org    Find a Doctor    Locations & Directions    Patients & Visitors    Health Library    Institutes & Departments      MyChart Need help?    Call for Additional Assistance 800.223.2273       ClevelandClinic.org   Find a Doctor    Locations & Directions    Patients & Visitors    Health Library    Institutes & Departments           Home  / Health Library / Treatments & Procedures / Vasectomy (Sterilization)    Vasectomy (Sterilization)  Vasectomy offers many advantages as a method of birth control. Compared to female sterilization, vasectomy is simpler, more effective, can be performed on an outpatient basis, has fewer complications, and is much less expensive.     Urology 216.444.5600  Nephrology 216.444.6771  Appointments & Locations  Chat with a Representative    Share   Facebook   Twitter   Linkedin   Email              Vasectomy (Sterilization) Menu     Print Full Article     Overview  Procedure Details  Risks / Benefits  Recovery and Outlook                 Percutaneous No-Scalpel Vasectomy   What is a vasectomy?  Vasectomy is a simple, safe procedure is designed to make a man permanently sterile, or unable to father a child. A total of about 50 million men have had a vasectomy—approximately 5 percent of all married men of reproductive age.  The percutaneous no-scalpel vasectomy is an improvement on a traditional vasectomy. An advanced technique to anesthetize (numb) the scrotum is used, and patients have less discomfort, fewer complications, and a quicker recovery. What's more, no skin stitches or sutures are needed.  Is a vasectomy 100 percent effective?  Other than total abstinence, no method of birth control is 100 percent effective. In rare cases after a vasectomy, it is possible for sperm to find its way across the void between the two blocked ends of the vas deferens. This generally occurs within the first few months after a vasectomy. However, the failure rate of vasectomy is very low. It has been used for many years as a means of sterilization and has a long track record as a safe and effective method of contraception.  If dead or live sperm continue to appear in the semen samples, or if sperm are discovered after a period of sterility, a repeat vasectomy will be necessary. Fortunately, this only happens approximately once in every 1,000 cases, a failure rate far less than for any other form of birth control.   Next: Procedure Details         Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy                     Related Institutes & Services   Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute  The Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute offers innovative treatments in urology and nephrology, including minimally invasive, scarless options for urologic procedures and medical management of kidney disease.      Related Health Information   Vasectomy    Vasectomy - After Surgery Information    Vasectomy - Frequently Asked Questions    Before Surgery Information - Pre Op    Risk Factors    Side Effects         Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy           References:   American Urological Association. What is a Vasectomy? Accessed 1/21/2016.  Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. How is a vasectomy done? Accessed 1/21/2016.  American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Sterilization for Women and Men Accessed 11/20/2015.   © Copyright 1995-2018 The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. All rights reserved.   This information is provided by the Cleveland Clinic and is not intended to replace the medical advice of your doctor or healthcare provider. Please consult your healthcare provider for advice about a specific medical condition.

                            This document was last reviewed on: 01/20/2016        Cleveland Clinic News & More   Cleveland Clinic News & More           Show More          Questions?  Call us at  800.223.2273        Facebook     Twitter     YouTube     Instagram     LinkedIn     Pinterest     Snapchat        Actions   Appointments Pay Your Bill Financial Assistance Accepted Insurance Make a Donation Refer a Patient Phone Directory     Blog, News & Mobile Apps   Consult QD Health Essentials Newsroom Mobile Apps     About Cleveland Clinic   About Us Locations Quality & Patient Safety Office of Diversity & Inclusion Patient Experience Research & Innovations Government & Community Relations Careers For Employees Resources for Medical Professionals     Site Information & Policies   Send Us Feedback Site Map About this Website Copyright, Reprint & Licensing Website Terms of Use Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices       9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195 | 800.223.2273 | © 2018 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.     ; 
        ; 
        ;
        ;                                     Vasectomy  Overview | How
            it works | The procedure | Complications | Risks | Effectiveness | Alternatives  What are your birth
            control options? You and your partner are absolutely sure that you do not want to have
          any more children. Sterilization is an available option, offering an
          almost completely safe and reliable form of permanent birth control.
          Because it is safer and less complicated, most physicians recommend
          male rather than female sterilization to couples.  The vasectomy is a simple office procedure
          in which a segment of the tubes carrying the sperm from the testicles
          is removed, and the ends are sealed off. The procedure takes about
          ten minutes and is performed under a local anesthetic. Check to see
          if you can have a scalpeless vasectomy, which uses a technique in which
          an incision is not made. Most men readily admit that the procedure
          is less painful than a visit to the dentist's office. Additionally,
          the only medication necessary afterward for the discomfort is a mild
          anti-inflammatory such as Advil or Tylenol. In order to minimize the
          discomfort and complications, it is important to stay off your feet
          for one to two days after the procedure. Most instances of complications
          from vasectomies occur because of too much activity following the procedure.  Family Planning:
            When Your Reproductive Years Are Behind You Family size is the most difficult decision most couples ever have to
          make. There are so many aspects to consider: the joy children bring
          to the household, the cost of supporting them, your or your spouse's
          career plans, the medical risks of pregnancy and temporary birth control
          methods, and, of course, what your faith tells you.  Temporary birth control methods—condoms, the diaphragm, the pill,
          etc.—let couples time their births and postpone taking more permanent
          measures. But, used long enough, every one of them might just fail.
          For that reason, many couples eventually choose a more-permanent approach—voluntary
          sterilization.  Only you, yours and your maker can decide about sterilization. But
          I can tell you most couples take time—between two and five years—to
          become sure enough to go ahead.  That's good. Though both common forms of sterilization can be surgically
          reversed, reversal is more complicated and expensive than sterilization,
          insurance companies usually won't pay for it and there's no guarantee
          of success. That's why I like to call sterilization "permanent."  Once you're confident that you're ready to put your reproductive years
          behind you, there are two options: vasectomy (male sterilization) or
          tubal ligation (female sterilization). Vasectomy makes you sterile
          by cutting the pipelines (the vas deferens) between the testicles and
          the penis. These small tubes are located just under the surface of
          the scrotal skin, and it takes less than 15 minutes in the doctor's
          office to snip them and seal the ends under a local anesthetic.  Tubal ligation involves cutting and tying a woman's fallopian tubes,
          which are well below muscles and other tissue in the abdomen. It requires
          a general anesthetic and a hospital visit.  A couple of statistics might make the differences even more clear:   Fatalities per 100,000: tubal
              ligation = 3.51; vasectomy = 0  Approximate cost: tubal ligation
              = $2,500; vasectomy = $750 - 850   Vasectomy is simpler, safer, cheaper
          and takes less time to recover from than tubal ligation. Their failure
          rates are just about the same: 1 in 2,000.  Still, most men naturally squirm at the thought of anyone tampering
          with that part of their bodies. If you hear horror stories about vasectomy,
          press for details. I assure you the tale will turn out to be at least
          third-hand and groundless. I've done more than 4,500 vasectomies and
          have never seen a serious complication. The most frequent comment is, "You
          mean it's over already?"  When a man has a vasectomy Friday afternoon and follows instructions—uses
          ice packs, elevates his feet and is inactive for the weekend (no matter
          how good he feels)—he's back to work on Monday barely feeling
          a thing.  It's worth discussing with your doctor what approach he uses and how
          many vasectomies he's done. Technique and experience can make a significant
          difference both in how quickly you're back on your feet and also in
          the likelihood of failure.  Is sex different after vasectomy? Not at all. Because the testicles
          supply less than 5 percent of the ejaculate, there's no noticeable
          difference in the semen. Erections and sex drive are unaffected—though
          freedom from worry of pregnancy often enhances a couple's sex life.  What about long-term health effects? No repeated studies have ever
          documented a hazard to men who have had vasectomies. And recently,
          researchers at Harvard University reported in the New England Journal
          of Medicine results from the largest study ever of vasectomized men.
          They were unable to associate vasectomy with any health problem in
          14,607 vasectomized men.  Don't choose vasectomy lightly. But if you and your spouse decide you're
          ready for permanent birth control, get the facts and consider it carefully.
          (Write the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, 79 Madison
          Avenue, New York, NY 10016, 212-561-8090, for more information. Please
          include a business-size self-addressed, stamped envelope.)  When you understand the choices, I think you'll agree guys, it's the
          least we can do for our women. [ top ]  Overview The vast majority of men who have a vasectomy are delighted by the
            results. But roughly two of every 100 end up regretting the decision.
            Almost without exception, it wasn't the vasectomy's fault. Those
            two simply weren't ready to accept permanent birth control. Usually,
            they're men who have entered a new relationship and have changed
            their mind about fatherhood. (Although vasectomy can sometimes be
            reversed, it should be considered permanent.)  Some of the positive signs that you
          may be ready to have vasectomy include:    You're in a stable, long-term
                marriage of 10 or more years, and both of you agree that you
                do not want more children.  You don't want to or can't use
                temporary methods of birth control.  You or your partner has an inheritable
                disorder that you don't want to risk passing along to a child.  Pregnancy poses a serious health
                risk to your partner.    On the other hand, some of the warning
          signs that vasectomy may not be a good choice include:    You are young.  You have few or no children.  Your relationship with your spouse
                is shaky.  Either you or your partner is
                less than certain about the choice.  You're worried about how it will
                affect your sexuality.  You think there's a chance you
                might want more children if your situation changes (for example,
                a new spouse, death of a child, or improvement in finances).  You think vasectomy reversal
                is a good option if your situation changes.  You're considering "banking" sperm
                just in case.  Your situation requires protection
                against sexually transmitted diseases. (Vasectomy offers no protection
                against STDs.)  You don't understand how vasectomy
                works, how it's done, what the side effects can be and what the
                alternatives are.   How vasectomy
              works Sperm are produced in a man's testes, and they mature in an area
            attached to the testes called the epididymis. It takes about 90 days
            from the time that the sperm are made for them to travel gradually
            up two tubes called the vas deferentia and become available for ejaculation.
            Prior to ejaculation, they're mixed with fluids from the seminal
            vesicles and the prostate to form semen. Vasectomy interrupts this
            process by closing off the vas deferentia, preventing the sperm from
            joining the other fluids. There is no noticeable change in the man's
            semen, because the sperm's contribution to volume is less than 5
            percent.  Vasectomy has no physical effect on a man's virility,
            because it doesn't change the testes' production of the male hormone,
            testosterone. His sex drive, potency, male characteristics, and sexual
            pleasure should be unchanged. (About 30 percent of men report improved
            sexuality after a vasectomy, most likely because the worry of pregnancy
            is eliminated.) After a vasectomy, sperm continue to be produced
            but at a decreased rate. Those that are produced die and are absorbed
            by the body—just as they would be in an unvasectomized man
            who did not ejaculate. [ top ]  How a vasectomy
              is done Vasectomy is a minor surgical procedure done in the doctor's office
            that removes a small section of each vas deferens and seals off the
            ends. Prior to the late 1980s, most vasectomies were done using a
            small scalpel, took about 30 minutes, and required a couple of days
            for full recovery. Around 1988, though, a Chinese technique was introduced
            to the United States. The no-scalpel vasectomy simplifies the procedure,
            reducing the total time to between 8 and 10 minutes. No incision
            is made, so no stitches are required. There is less discomfort during
            and after the procedure, complications such as bleeding are reduced,
            and recovery is quicker.  No scalpel vasectomy is done with a special tool that
            creates minimum disturbance. The prick of the needle for the local
            anesthetic is about the extent of what most men feel. Nearly 8,000
            vasectomies have been performed by Dr. Goldberg and the
            most common comment we hear is, "It's over? That's it?" Most
            men don't even need Tylenol afterward, let alone a prescription pain
            killer. Likewise, the pain isn't too great when the bill comes. Vasectomy
            typically costs $800.  If possible, you should have someone come along to
            drive you home, but we've had men drive a couple of hours both ways
            to have a vasectomy here. Spending a couple of days afterward resting
            and applying an ice pack to your scrotum will greatly speed your
            recovery and reduce the risk of complications. [ top ]  Complications
              from vasectomy Only about 10 percent of men experience any sort of complication
            from a vasectomy, and these are usually minor. There has never been
            a death with a vasectomy. Of course, as is the case with any surgical
            procedure, there's always a small risk for bleeding, infection, or
            allergic reaction to the anesthetic, causing a rash. Complications
            specific to vasectomy include the possibility of a sperm granuloma,
            testicular pain, and epididymitis. Also, in very rare instances,
            a man can lose a testicle.  A sperm granuloma occurs if sperm leak
            from the vasectomy site or a rupture in the epididymis and provoke
            an inflammatory reaction. About a half-inch in diameter, they require
            further attention in only about two percent of men. About one percent
            of men experience aching testicles from congestion in the epididymis.
            This usually disappears within six months. Epididymitis is an inflammation
            at the vasectomy site, usually taking place within the first year.
            Heat and anti-inflammatory medicine usually clear it up in about
            a week.  By far the most common complication
            we see is swelling of the scrotum in guys who refuse to take it easy
            for a couple of days after a vasectomy. Unfortunately, once the swelling
            starts, it may take two weeks for it to reduce completely, so prevention
            is the best approach. [ top ]  What
              are the risks of vasectomy? A study has shown that men who have had a vasectomy have an increased
            incidence of prostate
            cancer after 20 years. Since that report, other studies
            have noted that there is no increased incidence of prostate cancer.
            The Male Health Center is monitoring current developments regarding
            this possibility and will be happy to discuss the risk factors in
            more detail at the time of your consultation.  For at least the first six weeks after the procedure, you will be
            advised to use another form of birth control. Afterward, the man's
            semen is checked to ensure no sperm are present. Total charge for
            a vasectomy is typically less than $900. [ top ]  Long-term risks
              of vasectomy Vasectomy is one of the most studied of all medical procedures, yet
            rumors of long-term risks have persisted almost since the beginning
            of its use in the U.S. in the 1960s. To date, the body of medical
            evidence indicates that it is quite safe. Both the National Institutes
            of Health and the World Health Organization have given it a clean
            bill.  Although risks such as heart disease
            and arthritis were pretty much debunked by the 1980s, vasectomy's
            effect on the risk of prostate cancer continues to be studied. Although
            some studies have suggested a relation between the two, others have
            not. A panel of experts was convened by the National Institutes of
            Health to study the available research, and it concluded that the
            evidence for a link between vasectomy and prostate cancer was inconsistent
            and insufficient. No changes were recommended, including no increased
            screening for prostate cancer among men who have had vasectomies. [ top ]         How effective
              is it? The overall failure rate for vasectomy rate is 0.15 percent, but
            that doesn't give an accurate picture of its real effectiveness.
            Most vasectomy failures happen during the first couple of months
            after the procedure, when live sperm may still present in a man's
            semen. Couples must continue to use another method of birth control
            until the man has ejaculated about 20 times (clearing the sperm)
            over as long as six months and tests (we require two) have shown
            that no live sperm remain. Some men skip the tests and end up regretting
            it. About one of every 4,000 vasectomies fails because the vas deferentia
            manage to reconnect—a failure rate of 0.025 percent. [ top ]  What are the
              alternatives? Up to 40 percent of couples considering permanent birth control have
            experienced a failure with a temporary method—such as condoms,
            a diaphragm, spermicides, IUDs, hormonal implants, and the pill—so
            the obvious alternative to vasectomy is tubal ligation for the woman.
            By comparison, tubal ligation is a more involved surgical procedure,
            costing about $1,500 to $2,500, with a greater rate of complication.
            To put it in perspective, the fatality rate for tubal is 3.51 per
            100,000—compared with zero for vasectomy.  Despite the obvious advantages of vasectomy, more tubal
            ligations (about 600,000) than vasectomies (about 500,000) are performed
            each year. Why? Most likely because women have traditionally taken
            the responsibility for birth control. Vasectomy offers men the opportunity
            to begin to set the record straight. [ top ]  What about female sterilization? Tubal ligation is a procedure in which a woman's fallopian tubes
              are severed or sealed off, which prevents the egg from being fertilized
              by sperm. Unlike vasectomy, which is a simple outpatient procedure,
              tubal ligation typically is more complex and can require a hospital
              stay. Sometimes tubal ligation can be performed at an ambulatory
              surgery center.  In the most common tubal ligation procedure, the woman's
            fallopian tubes are sealed off with tiny metal rings or clips. It
            is necessary that two incisions be made just below the navel. The
            costs for tubal ligation, including surgeon's fees, operating room
            facility, and anesthesiologist's charges, range anywhere from $1,500
            to $2,500. The procedure requires a general or regional anesthetic.
            A recent study showed that there was an 18 percent incidence of reconnection
            after tubal ligation. [ top ]  What if you change
              your mind? We can plan, but we can't predict the future. So a few man who have
            had a vasectomy—about one in 100 — will attempt to reverse
            it. Fortunately, microsurgical techniques developed in recent years
            have greatly improved the likelihood of success. Two types of surgical
            procedures are used to reverse vasectomy. In men who still have sperm
            present in their vas deferentia, vasovasostomy reconnects the vas.
            When no sperm are found (about one-third of all cases), the far ends
            of the vas deferentia can be directly connected to the epididymis,
            using a technique called vasoepididymostomy.  Neither method of reconnection is easy,
            certain of success, or cheap. Although both can often be done at
            an ambulatory surgery center, with the man going home the same day,
            vasovasostomy takes two to three hours, and vasoepididymostomy can
            take five. The cost will be somewhere between $5,000 and $15,000.
            Overall, the rates of pregnancy are about 50 percent and 20 percent
            respectively, but the chances also depend on how recently the man
            had the vasectomy. For vasovasostomy, the chances of pregnancy are
            as high as three-quarters for the first three years, declining to
            about half for years three through eight, and as low as one-third
            after the fifteenth year. Vasectomy reversal actually turns up sperm
            in semen considerably more often than the pregnancy numbers suggest.
            But sperm don't guarantee pregnancy, and pregnancy is the goal.  If reconnection fails, there is yet
            another option for couples who want children. In a new procedure,
            sperm are aspirated directly from a man's testicle and injected into
            an egg removed from the woman. Once fertilization takes place, the
            egg can be implanted in the woman, where normal gestation can take
            place. Needless to say, this is more complicated and expensive than
            reconnection, and the odds of success are lower.  As you can see, a man who wants to
            reverse his vasectomy has pretty good odds of success. But it's still
            not something to count on when considering a vasectomy as a birth
            control option. [ top ]      About
          us | Contact
            us | Referring
              physicians | Topics | Prevention | Male
                Health Quiz | Resources | For
                Women | Home  Copyright © 2017 MedIngenuity, LLC Business Development for Physicians    Need more
                information on male health issues?   Click here for information on diet, nutrition and health resource books. Learn when to see the doctor and what causes symptoms.    Copyright © 2006
              THE MALE HEALTH CENTER, LEWISVILLE, TEXAS                         EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Community Home   COMMUNITY           Birth Clubs    Groups    Mom Answers    My Stuff    Photos     Shopping          Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home   /   Getting Pregnant Q&A;    /  Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;         Could I Be Pregnant? Q&A;    Getting Pregnant Q&A;    Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;                                Realistic possibility of pregnancy after vasectomy?      My husband had a vasectomy 2 yrs ago, and now we have decided we would like one more. He is not willing to have a vasectomy reversal but is not opposed to getting pregnant. He just doesn't want anymore pain like that! Has anyone had any success in a natural pregnancy after a vasectomy?                  christally38    Asked 1/4/10         Answer this question        RELATED EXPERT ARTICLE            Vasectomy   Find out whether a vasectomy is a good postpartum contraceptive choice for you and your partner.          The BabyCenter Editorial Team          Mom Answers ( 74 )   Best answers   Most recent      BEST ANSWER   After reading all these posts, I'm beginning to think it is not that uncommon. I'm 8 weeks pregnant with baby number 5, nearly two years since my husband's vasectomy. His urologist said that although the procedure was done properly, snipped and cauterized, one set mananged to grow back together. And yes, this is ABSOLUTELY his baby, lol!! My biggest fear right now is telling everyone!! ;) And for the record, my husband doesn't waint to go through pain again, but is still going back to have his vasectomy &quot;fixed&quot;, this time with silk sutures!! Good Luck.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 3/6/10                16 found this helpful     I, myself, just found out I was pregnant a few days ago. I had nausea, stomach pains, very tired, etc. Then I realized my period was late. I thought there was no way I could be pregnant since my husband had a vasectomy almost 5 yrs ago after our 3rd child, but the OTC pregnancy test showed positive. For the record, yes, it is absolutely his...LOL. Anyway, It is pretty rare, and we are in shock still, but the answer is yes, it CAN happen. PS. We are going to get a sperm check tomorrow just to see how this happened, etc.                 mommyibarra2005    Answered 2/10/10               15 found this helpful     My husband had a vasectomy 7 years ago. He was tested every year and there was nothing but a few non motiles. I conceived in early July 2013 and we now have a beautiful baby girl. Like others I thought I had stomach issues after my stepson contracted an amoeba and pin worms in Africa. For two months I brushed off the stomach bug and tiredness and then in September went to the doctor to be told I was pregnant. He was 52 and I was 42 when we found out...and together we already (had) 6! The pregnancy was a shock as the urologist had been clear that the chance was &#39;a thousandth of 1% ....basically 1 in a million. The pregnancy was hard in our relationship....he wanted to terminate &amp; I simply could not though it was not the most rational choice. After she was born we had a paternity test ....he said he knew but his buddies, the urologist, the lawyer and therapist (and x wife) all raised doubts and the power if suggestion is strong. He is the daddy (of course)...it happens :) blessings!                 icloudious    Answered 6/4/14               11 found this helpful     My daughter is ten months old today &amp; we are very happy....how we my mind slips back at times to this time last year when he didn&#39;t want a baby....he&#39;d had a vasectomy 7 years ago because he did not want more childrem. It&#39; was a ttough year and I was happy to ring in 2915! She was unexpected and not invited but we couldn&#39;t (today) imagine a world without her incredible presence! It&#39;s not an easy path if this happens but know that you are one in millions and you did win the lottery of life :-)                 icloudious    Answered 1/20/15               8 found this helpful     I know this is an old post but just saw it because my husband had a vasectomy in 2010. I&#39;m usually right on time but today I&#39;m 4 days late and experiencing lots of symptoms: Nausea, Smells, Fatigue. Too weirded out to take a test yet. I&#39;ll wait till I&#39;m 7 days late for that!                 carissasmom1    Answered 1/27/15               8 found this helpful     My husband had his vasectomy just over five years ago...in April 8 months after he'd had it done I gave birth to a beautiful baby girl...I'm now nauseous every morning and have had some signs of breast milk coming in. Part of me doesn't want another baby, but I'm reaching the age that most women in my family start menopause and there is this bigger part of me that is praying and begging for a baby. He has also said from time to time in the past year that he would like another baby even if he has to try to get a reversal. He had clips put on no cauterization, and the surgeon was in a rush to get it done because the local anesthetic wore off shortly after the procedure began so he was feeling everything that the doctor did to him. The first test after the vas was clear so the dr. refused to do any other tests and I did get pregnant after it was done so I know it's possible, but with our daughter now four and a half it's taken a while and I'm thinking that a clip may have come loose.                 blackgypsywoman    Answered 9/26/11               8 found this helpful     I'm on my third pregnancy after my husband's vasectomy 2 years ago.                 momto5or6?    Answered 5/2/11               8 found this helpful     I had so many &quot;symptoms&quot; but wasn&#39;t pregnant either. I&#39;m hoping that means that when I get my BFP that the real symptoms aren&#39;t actually that bad. PMS and early pregnancy symptoms are the same because they are caused by the same hormone - progesterone. During your 2ww, your body is preparing itself to be pregnant whether or not your cycle will end in a viable pregnancy. This is a just in case mechanism so that your body is prepared for any possible pregnancy. So your body does act as though it is pregnant for roughly two weeks out of every cycle in preparation. If you are indeed pregnant, those symptoms will lengthen and intensify. New ones will appear too as your pregnancy progresses and hCG accumulates. I&#39;d suggest you to read this book from http://pregnancyhours.com that can help you to get pregnant fast and have a healthy pregnancy. Guaranteed! I tried this too and it&#39;s worked.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 6/30/15               6 found this helpful     If the couples use birth control until the man is cleared by semen analysis, the risk of getting pregnant after vasectomy goes down to 1/2000 (.05%).

These figures will vary depending on the source and the parameters of the study, but the general consensus is that when a man follows his doctor&rsquo;s post-operative instructions carefully and waits for the all clear before having unprotected sex, the chances of conceiving after vasectomy are very low.

It&rsquo;s important to note that many studies on vasectomy failure were performed before the advent of new surgical techniques such as thermal cautery and fascial interposition. These new methods have further increased the effectiveness of vasectomy and have brought the recanalization rate even closer to 0%.                 EllenWooding    Answered 10/4/16               6 found this helpful     Yes, it is absolutely possible! I have a baby girl of almost a year old now. I found out I was pregnant with her 4 years after my husband had his vasectomy. It was a shock at the time and I had to put up with all the &#39;jokes&#39; about me being sure it was his but it&#39;s been the best thing that&#39;s happened to our family and we feel very lucky to have her.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 10/22/13               5 found this helpful           / 8                 Reason for reporting   Offensive or inappropriate materials  Spamming or advertising  Vulgarity or profanity  Personal attack  Invasion of privacy  Copyright infringement       Cancel    Submit       Thank you for your feedback.           Answer this question    Log in or sign up  to add your answer        Log in to answer           Search Mom Answers            Can't find what you need?  Ask a question     Recent questions in Fertility Problems & Solutions     Hypothyroidism.. pcos.. thinking I'm not able to ovulate but just had HSG test done yesterday.     0  Asked
2 hours ago         I'm trying to get pregnant     1  Asked
13 hours ago         I have slight hypothyroidism and PCOS, can I still concieve?     1  Asked
22 hours ago         Ivf treatment failed     1  Asked
1 day ago       See all in Fertility Problems & Solutions              advertisement       Featured video     10 signs you're pregnant   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos       advertisement                                You might also like                  Common causes of fertility problems in women   Find out some common reasons why a woman may have trouble conceiving.                Common causes of fertility problems in men   Find out some common reasons why a man may have trouble conceiving.                I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                    Identifying a Fertility Problem   Common causes of fertility issues in men and women, plus other important info to help determine why you might have problems con...                What is a sperm allergy, and how do I know if I have one?   Find out who can have a sperm allergy. Women? Men? Both? And learn how a sperm allergy can affect your fertility and why this a...                Fertility drugs for women   These little wonder pills and injections promote ovulation, which may help you get pregnant but also increases your chance of m...                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                Emotional Health & Infertility   Infertility is hard to deal with. Get the basic facts along with expert advice about facing with this challenge.                    Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)   Find out if IVF, the most common of the high-tech fertility treatments, might be for you.                          Common causes of fertility problems in women   Find out some common reasons why a woman may have trouble conceiving.                Common causes of fertility problems in men   Find out some common reasons why a man may have trouble conceiving.                    I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                Identifying a Fertility Problem   Common causes of fertility issues in men and women, plus other important info to help determine why you might have problems con...                    What is a sperm allergy, and how do I know if I have one?   Find out who can have a sperm allergy. Women? Men? Both? And learn how a sperm allergy can affect your fertility and why this a...                Fertility drugs for women   These little wonder pills and injections promote ovulation, which may help you get pregnant but also increases your chance of m...                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                    Emotional Health & Infertility   Infertility is hard to deal with. Get the basic facts along with expert advice about facing with this challenge.                Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)   Find out if IVF, the most common of the high-tech fertility treatments, might be for you.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons         advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                               What’s New  Childrearing   Being A Mom  Mom Fun    Pregnancy & Health  Stuff   Holidays  Women’s Issues    News  About Us   Contact Us  Advertise  Write For Us  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy             Press "Enter" to Search                     5 Real Life Vasectomy Fails That Make My Uterus Quiver In Fear   08 Jan 2014  Bethany Ramos     Even typing the words “failed vasectomy” makes my vagina clamp shut like a clam and my empty womb turn to dust. Once I got so bold as to Google “failed vasectomy,” my worst fears were confirmed. It happens. Not often, but it happens enough to scare the hell out of me—a woman perfectly content with stopping at two kids.  Vasectomy success rates are estimated at more than 99%, which sounds great at face value. The reason my husband and I went for the big V instead of a tubal is mostly because of price. His vasectomy was only $1000, and it was an outpatient procedure that didn’t seem too uncomfortable for him from my outside perspective. In comparison, the Internets told me that a tubal ligation could cost up to $6000. We also figured that it was his turn to get his man parts smacked around for once. What a guy!     Anyhoo, in my world, vasectomy failure is the stuff nightmares are made of. While it’s highly unlikely to happen, there’s a slim chance I could end up with an unplanned baby after smugly assuming the baby factory is closed forever. Anytime you bring up the topic of vasectomy, there’s always someone who knows someone who knows someone that had baby #3 or #4 after their husband got snipped.  After checking out a few Internet forums, here are some of the scariest vasectomy failure stories I could find with real world consequences:  1. Failed vasectomy made husband’s penis shrivel up and die.     I don’t have any sage advice for this guy per se, but I do feel his metaphorical pain. Even though I’d ultimately love any “surprise” baby that came my way, I probably wouldn’t be too psyched about P-in-the-V until someone could present me with an ironclad contract that promised I would never be pregnant again.     2. Failed vasectomy = baby #4 = depression.   I really feel for this honest mother who is clearly distraught about having a much fuller house than she ever planned for. Even worse, it sounds like she and her husband did everything right and came back with a clear sperm sample but still fell into the minority “failure camp” of 0.6%. That just sucks.     3. Failed vasectomy led to I Didn’t Know I Was Pregnant nightmare scenario.     Whoa, just whoa. The back story on this couple was that they both didn’t want children by choice. What’s even more shocking is that this thin woman hardly gained any weight and didn’t even find out she was pregnant until 27 weeks! This couple ultimately stuck with adoption and ended up dealing with depression and undergoing therapy.   4. Failed vasectomies still happen to cheating douchebags.   If a run-of-the-mill vasectomy failure occurred, the wife could possibly be blamed for cheating since the husband was “fixed.” In this unfortunate story, the husband was smugly banging his secretary and ended up getting her pregnant after a surprise vasectomy bust. Doh!   5. Even the best vasectomy couldn’t stop this super sperm.   I don’t know what kind of bullets this guy is shooting, but they are powerful. After a vasectomy and three follow-up tests, his sperm just can’t take a hint. He may have to undergo a repeat procedure to boot. I don’t know if he should be proud or pissed.   (photo: Getty Images )       Explore  adoption birth control surprise pregnancy vasectomy     Share on Facebook  See all comments      Close comments           Related Stories         A New Study Says Cost Plays a Major Role in the Types of Contraceptives Women Choose         Amy Duggar Wants to Adopt the Children From the 'House of Horrors'         Jill Duggar and Derick Dillard Likely Can't Adopt         Clinical Trial for a Male Contraceptive Gel Will Begin Next Year         A Judge Said an Anonymous Sperm Donor Is a Boy's Real Parent & Not His Other Mom         The Reason This Mom Makes Her Kids Count All Their Candy Will Make You Cry         « You’ll Agree With Louis CK Even When He Doesn’t Want To Get His Kids Christmas Gifts Morning Feeding: The Part Of Parenthood We’re Too Scared To Talk About »    Loading...                   The site is part of the Clevver Network.     Home  Terms of Use  About Us  Contact Us                                Search TheLaborOfLove:                     « What Are Men’s Reactions To A Miscarriage?  What Are The Chances of Getting Pregnant From Pre-Ejaculation? »               What Are The Chances of Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy?   Health and Well-Being  4 Comments    Your partner having a vasectomy is not a 100% guarantee that you will not ever get pregnant.  There is a very small (but very real) failure rate for vasectomy.  There is about a 0.6% to 1% chance that a man will still conceive a child after having had a vasectomy.  The biggest risk of getting pregnant after your partner has had a vasectomy will occur in the first few months after the procedure.  When you get a vasectomy, the health care provider will generally schedule a series of semen tests for the weeks following your vasectomy to check for sperm.  One of the most common ways that a woman gets pregnant after her partner’s vasectomy is if they don’t practice an alternate form of birth control in those first few months.  While it varies from one man to the next, it generally takes around ten weeks before sperm stop showing up in the semen after having a vasectomy.  In general, a man will have to have somewhere between 25 and 30 ejaculations before no sperm can be found in the semen, however some men have needed as many as 60 ejaculations for this to occur.  In some cases, even after a semen test is taken in which no sperm are found, a man may later become potent and start having sperm in his semen again.  Any number of things can be responsible for this.  They can include a technical error in the vasectomy procecure, for example.  In some cases, the ends of the vasa that are cut can actually grow back together on their own.  In other cases, an opening can develop in the vasa that will allow sperm to come through.     All told, a vasectomy is one of the surest ways to prevent pregnancy, compared to other methods.  Natural methods of birth control are possibly the least reliable methods of preventing getting pregnant.  Using the withdrawal technique is about 96% effective;  using rhythm can be as little as 91% effective, or as high as 99% effective, depending on the individual woman and how exactly the method is practiced.  Barrier methods of birth control tend to be a little bit better in terms of preventing getting pregnant.  Using a sponge is about 91% effective.  Using spermicide alone or a diaphragm is around 94% effective.  Using a male condom is about 97% effective, and using a female condom about 95%.  Combining one of the other methods with spermicide can raise the effectiveness to around 99%, however.  Hormonal methods of birth control have some of the best statistics, and are comparable to the success rates of a vasectomy.  Norplant, for example, is 99.91% effective.  The Depo-Provera shot (sometimes called the Depo shot for short) is around 99.7% effective.  Birth control pills are around 99.1% effective.  Of course, one of the benefits of having a vasectomy as compared to other methods is that it is a one-time thing.  With other methods, their success rates depend greatly on you using them correctly; the effectiveness of condoms, for example, lessens to around 93% on average due to incorrect use.  With a vasectomy, you don’t have to worry about a condom breaking, or forgetting to take birth control pills.    Related Posts         <          Main Page  TLOL Blog  Articles  Trying to Conceive  Pregnancy  Babies  Parenting  Of Interest  Chinese Gender Chart   Search  Search TLOL  Search Full Network   Search Articles            Please feel free to email us at if you have any questions or comments! © Earth's Magic Inc 2000 - 2017. All Rights Reserved.  [ Disclaimer | Privacy Statement ]                      Menu                    Register  Login   EN    ENGLISH  DEUTSCH  ESPAÑOL          Couldn't find what you looking for?  TRY OUR SEARCH!                  Home     ...     Discussions      Family Health      Pregnancy      Could I Be Pregnant?      Is it possible to get pregnant 10 years after a vasectomy    By ajk | 230 posts, last post 3 minutes ago         Dr Artem Agafonov answered this
            Can Men Remain Fertile Even After Vasectomy?    Read more       New Reply    Follow     New Topic                                      Guest  over a year ago    Just to throw this out there, I just had my second vasectomy last week because things were still swimming.  I went back to the doctor who performed the original one, he confirmed it was performed right, even showed me the lab results of the specimens that were taken.  I figured out it didn't work by getting a sperm test on a whim, 5 yrs after I had my first vasectomy done.  Luckily, my partners have always taken the pill to regulate themselves.  Long story short, it does happen, I am proof. Get a sperm test done.     Reply                 Loading...                  Guest  over a year ago    My husband had a vasectomy after our 2nd child, he never wanted children, we had two and he loves them but was so SURE he was done after #2 that he went and got the procedure.  Now he wants more, our daughter is 4 1/2 and he had it done when she was just a couple months old.  The Dr told him to wait a year he might change his mind, he didn't wait and sure enought when our daughter was just over a year he said he wanted another one.  The cost of reversal or IVF is way too high.  I would love to hear someone say the have gotten pregnant from someone who had a vasectomy!  Please post if you have!  I am going to have my husband get a count done just to make sure.  Has anyone gotten a count done to verify still nothing swimming around?     Reply                 Loading...                  Kim &amp; Scott57589  over a year ago     ajk wrote: I am 34 and my husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago.My last normal period was around July 8.Around the time I would have started in Aug all I did was spot a couple of days brown and pinkish.Now this month nothing.I'm a week over and am having other symptoms like sore tingling breasts,nausa,lower back discomfort,a feeling like fullness in my lower stomach and light cramping.I have had three other children and the only other time I remember feeling this way  I was pregnant.      Reply                 Loading...             Kim &amp; Scott57589  over a year ago    My husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago and I am 10 weeks pregnant.  Needless to say shock does not describe the state that we are in.  My oldest will be 16 and the youngest will be 14 when the baby is born. I know that everything will be ok., but we were planning retirement and college. Now everything changes. i am 34 and my husband is 37. We are still young, but that is why we started early so we could spend our later years together.     Reply                 Loading...             ElderJ  over a year ago     ajk wrote: I am 34 and my husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago.My last normal period was around July 8.Around the time I would have started in Aug all I did was spot a couple of days brown and pinkish.Now this month nothing.I'm a week over and am having other symptoms like sore tingling breasts,nausa,lower back discomfort,a feeling like fullness in my lower stomach and light cramping.I have had three other children and the only other time I remember feeling this way  I was pregnant.   Funny that you should mention this, as I had a vasectomy 10 years ago, and my wife thought she had become pregnant, so she took a pregnancy test. Positive. She couldn't believe it, so she called her doctor, who told her that it would be VERY rare that I could impregnate her after 10 years (had the vasectomy not been complete, we should have seen something by now :) ).  Anyway, she is getting her blood work done in order to verify this. Please keep in mind, however, that we are both Seventh-Day Adventist and have a strong prayer life with God, so the whole miracle concept is not lost on us. This is going to be a strong test of faith, however, as my wife is 39 (turning 40 soon) and our last pregancy came with serious complications (undetectable toximia which nearly resulted in my wife losing her life).     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    I am also 2 weeks late and just tested negative, but the doc told me to test again next week.  I have all the typical symtoms of early pregnancy.  I do believe in miracles and ElderJ's experience gives me hope that it too can happen to us....vasectomy and all.  Was your wife confirmed pregnant?     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    I always see new babies and wish my hubby never had the procedure done but then see my two children 5 and 6 1/2 and them not being babies anymore and say to myself man I'm glad they are potty trained, etc. .   so i'm worried I haven't took a test yet but might on my way out later. . i didn't read through all the pages but has this happened to anyone??   I'm only 27 so I know i'm not going through menopause yet.     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    o.O Ok ... after reading a few of these, I'm really beginning to wonder. I am 3 weeks late, and I am never ever late for my AF, plus I have many symptoms of pregnancy, but these also mimic AF. I've been cramping nonstop for the past 2 weeks (Like I did 5 years ago while I was pregnant with our son.) My Hubby has had SA's done 3 times since his V, and all have been negative ... but I'm seriously wondering if it is even remotely possible. I am terrified to get a HPT. If I were younger, not a problem, but I'm going to be 42 this year & hubby 43. Our eldest child will be 20 in a few months, next in line will be 18, and then our 5 y/o. I would be extremely happy if I were, but also scared, because of my age. With him having 3 - tests ... is it even possible?????????????His V was October 17, 07  o.O  o.O  o.O     Reply                 Loading...             Tracy Weddle  over a year ago    All of your stories give me some hope because I deeply regret having my Husband get a vasectomy.  We have 2 boys and I want 1 more.  People often tell me that since his vasectomy was cauterized it is pretty much a done deal.  Were any of yours done that way that got pregnant?[/list]   Reply              Loading...        Guest  over a year ago     vasectomy 10 years on. might be pregnant. 41 years old. lots of different symptoms but cant rule out pregnancy. havent had period for 6 weeks now. normally body like clock work. bit concerned. testing for other things to rule out but considering I havent got my period I cant rule out pregnancy even though my partner has had a vasectomy....10 years ago!      Reply                 Loading...           Auntie T96142  over a year ago    I am hearing the same thing... but what about answers??  I live in a tiny tiny town.. to even purchase a preg test at 42.. would cause gossip! I have never been unfaithful, my husband had a vasectomy 9 years ago..but never went back for any other test.. still we have been very active  sexually for the last 9 years... and I have never been late,. my breast very sore.. I have 3 children 16 - 23..   it must be menopause... right?     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    My husband, too, has had a vasectomy,  14 years ago, but im not sure what kind. I would like to find out though. I have been on the Ortho Evra patch for three years because of my painful periods from my Endrometreosis.  I take off the patch every three or four months to have a period, and I took it off two weeks ago. I took two and a half days for it to start. It usually starts right away. My period lasted four days. I put the patch back on, but I have had sore swollen breasts for a week, now they are only half sore, headaches, sleeplessness, lower back pain,bloating, and also something kicking in my stomach, and even once it felt like it did a summersault!  For three weeks I had this kicking feeling, not it is not so much anymore. I took a home pregnancy test, and it was negative. I went to the doctor, and had a urine test done, it came back neg. I have six children 15, 14, 19, 5, 3, and 2. We adopted the four through foster care. I would love to have a miracle baby. Could I be pregnant?  The doctor looked at me like I was nuts. I am 39.     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    My DH had his vasectomy days before our last son was born.  He just turned 9 and I just had a positive hpt.  It was confirmed with the Dr then 2 weeks later I miscarried.  It is possible sometimes.  I pray it happens again.  I grew to really want this baby after knowing I was pregnant then losing it was devastating to us. :$     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    So partner had vasectomy 8 years ago. I am pregnant.  Yes it happens.  I suggest you all stop wondering and stressing and order a test kit!     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    I am feeling like all of the other women here. My husband is 13 years older than me and had a vesectomy after his last child from his previous marriage who is now 13 years old. I am now wanting to have a child with him and praying that I can concieve somehow..I have heard of some women on here finding out that they are pregnant, but I am starting to feel like there is no hope. We can not afford to pay for any reversals or anything like that so I am hoping for a blessing in my belly...Any thoughts of hope would be appreciated!     Reply                 Loading...               First     «     2 of 16     »     1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    Last        Quick reply             Editor's Picks           Can Men Remain Fertile Even After Vasectomy?    Infocenter articles   Vasectomy side effects  Is stomach flu contagious  Vasectomy reversal  Vasectomy pros and cons  Is there a cure for neurofibromatosis             Brown Vaginal Discharge             Varicocele, Male Fertility and What to Do About It               Causes Of Excess Burping Followed By Chest Pain             What to Do, or Not, When Parents Don't Love All Their Children Equally               Recovery From Lumbar Disc Surgery             Breastfeeding And ADHD                            Register on our site    Find health and lifestyle advices & Get answers! Share real-life experiences with more than 250,000 community members!   Email address   Submit   Loading...     Log in if you're already registered or take a look at the unread posts .           Related Topics       My husband had a vasectomy three years ago and I have had nausea for a week now    over a year ago        Spotting durnig pregnancy    over a year ago        i had two periods which werent normal within that month    over a year ago        Pregnancy symtoms last 6 weeks or so no missed period but li    over a year ago        can i be pregnant.    over a year ago        Salpingectomy and no fallopian tubes. is natural pregnancy possible?    over 8 months ago        My husband had a vasectomy but I seem to be pregnant    over a year ago        Pregnant after Vasectomy?    over a year ago        Normal occurrence when you stop b.c. pills mid-way through?    over a year ago        Very odd couple of months    over a year ago               Related Articles         The Gift of a Happy Parent         Home Remedies for Pneumonia in Children         Big Changes In Psychiatry's "Bible"         Vitamin B Rich Diet Lowers the Risk of Premenstrual Syndrome         What Is ADHD, And Who Gets It?                     OK         You may find this useful  ×  +      Possible pregnancy but didn't know this when I had some wine    Nausea for 3 weeks NOW Gooey Light Brown Discharge? HELP PLEASE    Could i actually be pregnant?                                  800.223.2273    MyChart    Need help?    From out of town?    Giving    Careers    Search         Menu   Search      Cleveland Clinic Menu     ClevelandClinic.org    Find a Doctor    Locations & Directions    Patients & Visitors    Health Library    Institutes & Departments      MyChart Need help?    Call for Additional Assistance 800.223.2273       ClevelandClinic.org   Find a Doctor    Locations & Directions    Patients & Visitors    Health Library    Institutes & Departments           Home  / Health Library / Treatments & Procedures / Vasectomy (Sterilization)    Vasectomy (Sterilization)  Vasectomy offers many advantages as a method of birth control. Compared to female sterilization, vasectomy is simpler, more effective, can be performed on an outpatient basis, has fewer complications, and is much less expensive.     Urology 216.444.5600  Nephrology 216.444.6771  Appointments & Locations  Chat with a Representative    Share   Facebook   Twitter   Linkedin   Email              Vasectomy (Sterilization) Menu     Print Full Article     Overview  Procedure Details  Risks / Benefits  Recovery and Outlook                 Percutaneous No-Scalpel Vasectomy   What is a vasectomy?  Vasectomy is a simple, safe procedure is designed to make a man permanently sterile, or unable to father a child. A total of about 50 million men have had a vasectomy—approximately 5 percent of all married men of reproductive age.  The percutaneous no-scalpel vasectomy is an improvement on a traditional vasectomy. An advanced technique to anesthetize (numb) the scrotum is used, and patients have less discomfort, fewer complications, and a quicker recovery. What's more, no skin stitches or sutures are needed.  Is a vasectomy 100 percent effective?  Other than total abstinence, no method of birth control is 100 percent effective. In rare cases after a vasectomy, it is possible for sperm to find its way across the void between the two blocked ends of the vas deferens. This generally occurs within the first few months after a vasectomy. However, the failure rate of vasectomy is very low. It has been used for many years as a means of sterilization and has a long track record as a safe and effective method of contraception.  If dead or live sperm continue to appear in the semen samples, or if sperm are discovered after a period of sterility, a repeat vasectomy will be necessary. Fortunately, this only happens approximately once in every 1,000 cases, a failure rate far less than for any other form of birth control.   Next: Procedure Details         Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy                     Related Institutes & Services   Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute  The Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute offers innovative treatments in urology and nephrology, including minimally invasive, scarless options for urologic procedures and medical management of kidney disease.      Related Health Information   Vasectomy    Vasectomy - After Surgery Information    Vasectomy - Frequently Asked Questions    Before Surgery Information - Pre Op    Risk Factors    Side Effects         Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy           References:   American Urological Association. What is a Vasectomy? Accessed 1/21/2016.  Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. How is a vasectomy done? Accessed 1/21/2016.  American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Sterilization for Women and Men Accessed 11/20/2015.   © Copyright 1995-2018 The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. All rights reserved.   This information is provided by the Cleveland Clinic and is not intended to replace the medical advice of your doctor or healthcare provider. Please consult your healthcare provider for advice about a specific medical condition.

                            This document was last reviewed on: 01/20/2016        Cleveland Clinic News & More   Cleveland Clinic News & More           Show More          Questions?  Call us at  800.223.2273        Facebook     Twitter     YouTube     Instagram     LinkedIn     Pinterest     Snapchat        Actions   Appointments Pay Your Bill Financial Assistance Accepted Insurance Make a Donation Refer a Patient Phone Directory     Blog, News & Mobile Apps   Consult QD Health Essentials Newsroom Mobile Apps     About Cleveland Clinic   About Us Locations Quality & Patient Safety Office of Diversity & Inclusion Patient Experience Research & Innovations Government & Community Relations Careers For Employees Resources for Medical Professionals     Site Information & Policies   Send Us Feedback Site Map About this Website Copyright, Reprint & Licensing Website Terms of Use Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices       9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195 | 800.223.2273 | © 2018 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.     ; 
        ; 
        ;
        ;                                     Vasectomy  Overview | How
            it works | The procedure | Complications | Risks | Effectiveness | Alternatives  What are your birth
            control options? You and your partner are absolutely sure that you do not want to have
          any more children. Sterilization is an available option, offering an
          almost completely safe and reliable form of permanent birth control.
          Because it is safer and less complicated, most physicians recommend
          male rather than female sterilization to couples.  The vasectomy is a simple office procedure
          in which a segment of the tubes carrying the sperm from the testicles
          is removed, and the ends are sealed off. The procedure takes about
          ten minutes and is performed under a local anesthetic. Check to see
          if you can have a scalpeless vasectomy, which uses a technique in which
          an incision is not made. Most men readily admit that the procedure
          is less painful than a visit to the dentist's office. Additionally,
          the only medication necessary afterward for the discomfort is a mild
          anti-inflammatory such as Advil or Tylenol. In order to minimize the
          discomfort and complications, it is important to stay off your feet
          for one to two days after the procedure. Most instances of complications
          from vasectomies occur because of too much activity following the procedure.  Family Planning:
            When Your Reproductive Years Are Behind You Family size is the most difficult decision most couples ever have to
          make. There are so many aspects to consider: the joy children bring
          to the household, the cost of supporting them, your or your spouse's
          career plans, the medical risks of pregnancy and temporary birth control
          methods, and, of course, what your faith tells you.  Temporary birth control methods—condoms, the diaphragm, the pill,
          etc.—let couples time their births and postpone taking more permanent
          measures. But, used long enough, every one of them might just fail.
          For that reason, many couples eventually choose a more-permanent approach—voluntary
          sterilization.  Only you, yours and your maker can decide about sterilization. But
          I can tell you most couples take time—between two and five years—to
          become sure enough to go ahead.  That's good. Though both common forms of sterilization can be surgically
          reversed, reversal is more complicated and expensive than sterilization,
          insurance companies usually won't pay for it and there's no guarantee
          of success. That's why I like to call sterilization "permanent."  Once you're confident that you're ready to put your reproductive years
          behind you, there are two options: vasectomy (male sterilization) or
          tubal ligation (female sterilization). Vasectomy makes you sterile
          by cutting the pipelines (the vas deferens) between the testicles and
          the penis. These small tubes are located just under the surface of
          the scrotal skin, and it takes less than 15 minutes in the doctor's
          office to snip them and seal the ends under a local anesthetic.  Tubal ligation involves cutting and tying a woman's fallopian tubes,
          which are well below muscles and other tissue in the abdomen. It requires
          a general anesthetic and a hospital visit.  A couple of statistics might make the differences even more clear:   Fatalities per 100,000: tubal
              ligation = 3.51; vasectomy = 0  Approximate cost: tubal ligation
              = $2,500; vasectomy = $750 - 850   Vasectomy is simpler, safer, cheaper
          and takes less time to recover from than tubal ligation. Their failure
          rates are just about the same: 1 in 2,000.  Still, most men naturally squirm at the thought of anyone tampering
          with that part of their bodies. If you hear horror stories about vasectomy,
          press for details. I assure you the tale will turn out to be at least
          third-hand and groundless. I've done more than 4,500 vasectomies and
          have never seen a serious complication. The most frequent comment is, "You
          mean it's over already?"  When a man has a vasectomy Friday afternoon and follows instructions—uses
          ice packs, elevates his feet and is inactive for the weekend (no matter
          how good he feels)—he's back to work on Monday barely feeling
          a thing.  It's worth discussing with your doctor what approach he uses and how
          many vasectomies he's done. Technique and experience can make a significant
          difference both in how quickly you're back on your feet and also in
          the likelihood of failure.  Is sex different after vasectomy? Not at all. Because the testicles
          supply less than 5 percent of the ejaculate, there's no noticeable
          difference in the semen. Erections and sex drive are unaffected—though
          freedom from worry of pregnancy often enhances a couple's sex life.  What about long-term health effects? No repeated studies have ever
          documented a hazard to men who have had vasectomies. And recently,
          researchers at Harvard University reported in the New England Journal
          of Medicine results from the largest study ever of vasectomized men.
          They were unable to associate vasectomy with any health problem in
          14,607 vasectomized men.  Don't choose vasectomy lightly. But if you and your spouse decide you're
          ready for permanent birth control, get the facts and consider it carefully.
          (Write the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, 79 Madison
          Avenue, New York, NY 10016, 212-561-8090, for more information. Please
          include a business-size self-addressed, stamped envelope.)  When you understand the choices, I think you'll agree guys, it's the
          least we can do for our women. [ top ]  Overview The vast majority of men who have a vasectomy are delighted by the
            results. But roughly two of every 100 end up regretting the decision.
            Almost without exception, it wasn't the vasectomy's fault. Those
            two simply weren't ready to accept permanent birth control. Usually,
            they're men who have entered a new relationship and have changed
            their mind about fatherhood. (Although vasectomy can sometimes be
            reversed, it should be considered permanent.)  Some of the positive signs that you
          may be ready to have vasectomy include:    You're in a stable, long-term
                marriage of 10 or more years, and both of you agree that you
                do not want more children.  You don't want to or can't use
                temporary methods of birth control.  You or your partner has an inheritable
                disorder that you don't want to risk passing along to a child.  Pregnancy poses a serious health
                risk to your partner.    On the other hand, some of the warning
          signs that vasectomy may not be a good choice include:    You are young.  You have few or no children.  Your relationship with your spouse
                is shaky.  Either you or your partner is
                less than certain about the choice.  You're worried about how it will
                affect your sexuality.  You think there's a chance you
                might want more children if your situation changes (for example,
                a new spouse, death of a child, or improvement in finances).  You think vasectomy reversal
                is a good option if your situation changes.  You're considering "banking" sperm
                just in case.  Your situation requires protection
                against sexually transmitted diseases. (Vasectomy offers no protection
                against STDs.)  You don't understand how vasectomy
                works, how it's done, what the side effects can be and what the
                alternatives are.   How vasectomy
              works Sperm are produced in a man's testes, and they mature in an area
            attached to the testes called the epididymis. It takes about 90 days
            from the time that the sperm are made for them to travel gradually
            up two tubes called the vas deferentia and become available for ejaculation.
            Prior to ejaculation, they're mixed with fluids from the seminal
            vesicles and the prostate to form semen. Vasectomy interrupts this
            process by closing off the vas deferentia, preventing the sperm from
            joining the other fluids. There is no noticeable change in the man's
            semen, because the sperm's contribution to volume is less than 5
            percent.  Vasectomy has no physical effect on a man's virility,
            because it doesn't change the testes' production of the male hormone,
            testosterone. His sex drive, potency, male characteristics, and sexual
            pleasure should be unchanged. (About 30 percent of men report improved
            sexuality after a vasectomy, most likely because the worry of pregnancy
            is eliminated.) After a vasectomy, sperm continue to be produced
            but at a decreased rate. Those that are produced die and are absorbed
            by the body—just as they would be in an unvasectomized man
            who did not ejaculate. [ top ]  How a vasectomy
              is done Vasectomy is a minor surgical procedure done in the doctor's office
            that removes a small section of each vas deferens and seals off the
            ends. Prior to the late 1980s, most vasectomies were done using a
            small scalpel, took about 30 minutes, and required a couple of days
            for full recovery. Around 1988, though, a Chinese technique was introduced
            to the United States. The no-scalpel vasectomy simplifies the procedure,
            reducing the total time to between 8 and 10 minutes. No incision
            is made, so no stitches are required. There is less discomfort during
            and after the procedure, complications such as bleeding are reduced,
            and recovery is quicker.  No scalpel vasectomy is done with a special tool that
            creates minimum disturbance. The prick of the needle for the local
            anesthetic is about the extent of what most men feel. Nearly 8,000
            vasectomies have been performed by Dr. Goldberg and the
            most common comment we hear is, "It's over? That's it?" Most
            men don't even need Tylenol afterward, let alone a prescription pain
            killer. Likewise, the pain isn't too great when the bill comes. Vasectomy
            typically costs $800.  If possible, you should have someone come along to
            drive you home, but we've had men drive a couple of hours both ways
            to have a vasectomy here. Spending a couple of days afterward resting
            and applying an ice pack to your scrotum will greatly speed your
            recovery and reduce the risk of complications. [ top ]  Complications
              from vasectomy Only about 10 percent of men experience any sort of complication
            from a vasectomy, and these are usually minor. There has never been
            a death with a vasectomy. Of course, as is the case with any surgical
            procedure, there's always a small risk for bleeding, infection, or
            allergic reaction to the anesthetic, causing a rash. Complications
            specific to vasectomy include the possibility of a sperm granuloma,
            testicular pain, and epididymitis. Also, in very rare instances,
            a man can lose a testicle.  A sperm granuloma occurs if sperm leak
            from the vasectomy site or a rupture in the epididymis and provoke
            an inflammatory reaction. About a half-inch in diameter, they require
            further attention in only about two percent of men. About one percent
            of men experience aching testicles from congestion in the epididymis.
            This usually disappears within six months. Epididymitis is an inflammation
            at the vasectomy site, usually taking place within the first year.
            Heat and anti-inflammatory medicine usually clear it up in about
            a week.  By far the most common complication
            we see is swelling of the scrotum in guys who refuse to take it easy
            for a couple of days after a vasectomy. Unfortunately, once the swelling
            starts, it may take two weeks for it to reduce completely, so prevention
            is the best approach. [ top ]  What
              are the risks of vasectomy? A study has shown that men who have had a vasectomy have an increased
            incidence of prostate
            cancer after 20 years. Since that report, other studies
            have noted that there is no increased incidence of prostate cancer.
            The Male Health Center is monitoring current developments regarding
            this possibility and will be happy to discuss the risk factors in
            more detail at the time of your consultation.  For at least the first six weeks after the procedure, you will be
            advised to use another form of birth control. Afterward, the man's
            semen is checked to ensure no sperm are present. Total charge for
            a vasectomy is typically less than $900. [ top ]  Long-term risks
              of vasectomy Vasectomy is one of the most studied of all medical procedures, yet
            rumors of long-term risks have persisted almost since the beginning
            of its use in the U.S. in the 1960s. To date, the body of medical
            evidence indicates that it is quite safe. Both the National Institutes
            of Health and the World Health Organization have given it a clean
            bill.  Although risks such as heart disease
            and arthritis were pretty much debunked by the 1980s, vasectomy's
            effect on the risk of prostate cancer continues to be studied. Although
            some studies have suggested a relation between the two, others have
            not. A panel of experts was convened by the National Institutes of
            Health to study the available research, and it concluded that the
            evidence for a link between vasectomy and prostate cancer was inconsistent
            and insufficient. No changes were recommended, including no increased
            screening for prostate cancer among men who have had vasectomies. [ top ]         How effective
              is it? The overall failure rate for vasectomy rate is 0.15 percent, but
            that doesn't give an accurate picture of its real effectiveness.
            Most vasectomy failures happen during the first couple of months
            after the procedure, when live sperm may still present in a man's
            semen. Couples must continue to use another method of birth control
            until the man has ejaculated about 20 times (clearing the sperm)
            over as long as six months and tests (we require two) have shown
            that no live sperm remain. Some men skip the tests and end up regretting
            it. About one of every 4,000 vasectomies fails because the vas deferentia
            manage to reconnect—a failure rate of 0.025 percent. [ top ]  What are the
              alternatives? Up to 40 percent of couples considering permanent birth control have
            experienced a failure with a temporary method—such as condoms,
            a diaphragm, spermicides, IUDs, hormonal implants, and the pill—so
            the obvious alternative to vasectomy is tubal ligation for the woman.
            By comparison, tubal ligation is a more involved surgical procedure,
            costing about $1,500 to $2,500, with a greater rate of complication.
            To put it in perspective, the fatality rate for tubal is 3.51 per
            100,000—compared with zero for vasectomy.  Despite the obvious advantages of vasectomy, more tubal
            ligations (about 600,000) than vasectomies (about 500,000) are performed
            each year. Why? Most likely because women have traditionally taken
            the responsibility for birth control. Vasectomy offers men the opportunity
            to begin to set the record straight. [ top ]  What about female sterilization? Tubal ligation is a procedure in which a woman's fallopian tubes
              are severed or sealed off, which prevents the egg from being fertilized
              by sperm. Unlike vasectomy, which is a simple outpatient procedure,
              tubal ligation typically is more complex and can require a hospital
              stay. Sometimes tubal ligation can be performed at an ambulatory
              surgery center.  In the most common tubal ligation procedure, the woman's
            fallopian tubes are sealed off with tiny metal rings or clips. It
            is necessary that two incisions be made just below the navel. The
            costs for tubal ligation, including surgeon's fees, operating room
            facility, and anesthesiologist's charges, range anywhere from $1,500
            to $2,500. The procedure requires a general or regional anesthetic.
            A recent study showed that there was an 18 percent incidence of reconnection
            after tubal ligation. [ top ]  What if you change
              your mind? We can plan, but we can't predict the future. So a few man who have
            had a vasectomy—about one in 100 — will attempt to reverse
            it. Fortunately, microsurgical techniques developed in recent years
            have greatly improved the likelihood of success. Two types of surgical
            procedures are used to reverse vasectomy. In men who still have sperm
            present in their vas deferentia, vasovasostomy reconnects the vas.
            When no sperm are found (about one-third of all cases), the far ends
            of the vas deferentia can be directly connected to the epididymis,
            using a technique called vasoepididymostomy.  Neither method of reconnection is easy,
            certain of success, or cheap. Although both can often be done at
            an ambulatory surgery center, with the man going home the same day,
            vasovasostomy takes two to three hours, and vasoepididymostomy can
            take five. The cost will be somewhere between $5,000 and $15,000.
            Overall, the rates of pregnancy are about 50 percent and 20 percent
            respectively, but the chances also depend on how recently the man
            had the vasectomy. For vasovasostomy, the chances of pregnancy are
            as high as three-quarters for the first three years, declining to
            about half for years three through eight, and as low as one-third
            after the fifteenth year. Vasectomy reversal actually turns up sperm
            in semen considerably more often than the pregnancy numbers suggest.
            But sperm don't guarantee pregnancy, and pregnancy is the goal.  If reconnection fails, there is yet
            another option for couples who want children. In a new procedure,
            sperm are aspirated directly from a man's testicle and injected into
            an egg removed from the woman. Once fertilization takes place, the
            egg can be implanted in the woman, where normal gestation can take
            place. Needless to say, this is more complicated and expensive than
            reconnection, and the odds of success are lower.  As you can see, a man who wants to
            reverse his vasectomy has pretty good odds of success. But it's still
            not something to count on when considering a vasectomy as a birth
            control option. [ top ]      About
          us | Contact
            us | Referring
              physicians | Topics | Prevention | Male
                Health Quiz | Resources | For
                Women | Home  Copyright © 2017 MedIngenuity, LLC Business Development for Physicians    Need more
                information on male health issues?   Click here for information on diet, nutrition and health resource books. Learn when to see the doctor and what causes symptoms.    Copyright © 2006
              THE MALE HEALTH CENTER, LEWISVILLE, TEXAS                         EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Community Home   COMMUNITY           Birth Clubs    Groups    Mom Answers    My Stuff    Photos     Shopping          Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home   /   Getting Pregnant Q&A;    /  Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;         Could I Be Pregnant? Q&A;    Getting Pregnant Q&A;    Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;                                Realistic possibility of pregnancy after vasectomy?      My husband had a vasectomy 2 yrs ago, and now we have decided we would like one more. He is not willing to have a vasectomy reversal but is not opposed to getting pregnant. He just doesn't want anymore pain like that! Has anyone had any success in a natural pregnancy after a vasectomy?                  christally38    Asked 1/4/10         Answer this question        RELATED EXPERT ARTICLE            Vasectomy   Find out whether a vasectomy is a good postpartum contraceptive choice for you and your partner.          The BabyCenter Editorial Team          Mom Answers ( 74 )   Best answers   Most recent      BEST ANSWER   After reading all these posts, I'm beginning to think it is not that uncommon. I'm 8 weeks pregnant with baby number 5, nearly two years since my husband's vasectomy. His urologist said that although the procedure was done properly, snipped and cauterized, one set mananged to grow back together. And yes, this is ABSOLUTELY his baby, lol!! My biggest fear right now is telling everyone!! ;) And for the record, my husband doesn't waint to go through pain again, but is still going back to have his vasectomy &quot;fixed&quot;, this time with silk sutures!! Good Luck.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 3/6/10                16 found this helpful     I, myself, just found out I was pregnant a few days ago. I had nausea, stomach pains, very tired, etc. Then I realized my period was late. I thought there was no way I could be pregnant since my husband had a vasectomy almost 5 yrs ago after our 3rd child, but the OTC pregnancy test showed positive. For the record, yes, it is absolutely his...LOL. Anyway, It is pretty rare, and we are in shock still, but the answer is yes, it CAN happen. PS. We are going to get a sperm check tomorrow just to see how this happened, etc.                 mommyibarra2005    Answered 2/10/10               15 found this helpful     My husband had a vasectomy 7 years ago. He was tested every year and there was nothing but a few non motiles. I conceived in early July 2013 and we now have a beautiful baby girl. Like others I thought I had stomach issues after my stepson contracted an amoeba and pin worms in Africa. For two months I brushed off the stomach bug and tiredness and then in September went to the doctor to be told I was pregnant. He was 52 and I was 42 when we found out...and together we already (had) 6! The pregnancy was a shock as the urologist had been clear that the chance was &#39;a thousandth of 1% ....basically 1 in a million. The pregnancy was hard in our relationship....he wanted to terminate &amp; I simply could not though it was not the most rational choice. After she was born we had a paternity test ....he said he knew but his buddies, the urologist, the lawyer and therapist (and x wife) all raised doubts and the power if suggestion is strong. He is the daddy (of course)...it happens :) blessings!                 icloudious    Answered 6/4/14               11 found this helpful     My daughter is ten months old today &amp; we are very happy....how we my mind slips back at times to this time last year when he didn&#39;t want a baby....he&#39;d had a vasectomy 7 years ago because he did not want more childrem. It&#39; was a ttough year and I was happy to ring in 2915! She was unexpected and not invited but we couldn&#39;t (today) imagine a world without her incredible presence! It&#39;s not an easy path if this happens but know that you are one in millions and you did win the lottery of life :-)                 icloudious    Answered 1/20/15               8 found this helpful     I know this is an old post but just saw it because my husband had a vasectomy in 2010. I&#39;m usually right on time but today I&#39;m 4 days late and experiencing lots of symptoms: Nausea, Smells, Fatigue. Too weirded out to take a test yet. I&#39;ll wait till I&#39;m 7 days late for that!                 carissasmom1    Answered 1/27/15               8 found this helpful     My husband had his vasectomy just over five years ago...in April 8 months after he'd had it done I gave birth to a beautiful baby girl...I'm now nauseous every morning and have had some signs of breast milk coming in. Part of me doesn't want another baby, but I'm reaching the age that most women in my family start menopause and there is this bigger part of me that is praying and begging for a baby. He has also said from time to time in the past year that he would like another baby even if he has to try to get a reversal. He had clips put on no cauterization, and the surgeon was in a rush to get it done because the local anesthetic wore off shortly after the procedure began so he was feeling everything that the doctor did to him. The first test after the vas was clear so the dr. refused to do any other tests and I did get pregnant after it was done so I know it's possible, but with our daughter now four and a half it's taken a while and I'm thinking that a clip may have come loose.                 blackgypsywoman    Answered 9/26/11               8 found this helpful     I'm on my third pregnancy after my husband's vasectomy 2 years ago.                 momto5or6?    Answered 5/2/11               8 found this helpful     I had so many &quot;symptoms&quot; but wasn&#39;t pregnant either. I&#39;m hoping that means that when I get my BFP that the real symptoms aren&#39;t actually that bad. PMS and early pregnancy symptoms are the same because they are caused by the same hormone - progesterone. During your 2ww, your body is preparing itself to be pregnant whether or not your cycle will end in a viable pregnancy. This is a just in case mechanism so that your body is prepared for any possible pregnancy. So your body does act as though it is pregnant for roughly two weeks out of every cycle in preparation. If you are indeed pregnant, those symptoms will lengthen and intensify. New ones will appear too as your pregnancy progresses and hCG accumulates. I&#39;d suggest you to read this book from http://pregnancyhours.com that can help you to get pregnant fast and have a healthy pregnancy. Guaranteed! I tried this too and it&#39;s worked.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 6/30/15               6 found this helpful     If the couples use birth control until the man is cleared by semen analysis, the risk of getting pregnant after vasectomy goes down to 1/2000 (.05%).

These figures will vary depending on the source and the parameters of the study, but the general consensus is that when a man follows his doctor&rsquo;s post-operative instructions carefully and waits for the all clear before having unprotected sex, the chances of conceiving after vasectomy are very low.

It&rsquo;s important to note that many studies on vasectomy failure were performed before the advent of new surgical techniques such as thermal cautery and fascial interposition. These new methods have further increased the effectiveness of vasectomy and have brought the recanalization rate even closer to 0%.                 EllenWooding    Answered 10/4/16               6 found this helpful     Yes, it is absolutely possible! I have a baby girl of almost a year old now. I found out I was pregnant with her 4 years after my husband had his vasectomy. It was a shock at the time and I had to put up with all the &#39;jokes&#39; about me being sure it was his but it&#39;s been the best thing that&#39;s happened to our family and we feel very lucky to have her.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 10/22/13               5 found this helpful           / 8                 Reason for reporting   Offensive or inappropriate materials  Spamming or advertising  Vulgarity or profanity  Personal attack  Invasion of privacy  Copyright infringement       Cancel    Submit       Thank you for your feedback.           Answer this question    Log in or sign up  to add your answer        Log in to answer           Search Mom Answers            Can't find what you need?  Ask a question     Recent questions in Fertility Problems & Solutions     Hypothyroidism.. pcos.. thinking I'm not able to ovulate but just had HSG test done yesterday.     0  Asked
2 hours ago         I'm trying to get pregnant     1  Asked
13 hours ago         I have slight hypothyroidism and PCOS, can I still concieve?     1  Asked
22 hours ago         Ivf treatment failed     1  Asked
1 day ago       See all in Fertility Problems & Solutions              advertisement       Featured video     How do home pregnancy tests work?   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos       advertisement                                You might also like                  Common causes of fertility problems in women   Find out some common reasons why a woman may have trouble conceiving.                Common causes of fertility problems in men   Find out some common reasons why a man may have trouble conceiving.                I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                    Identifying a Fertility Problem   Common causes of fertility issues in men and women, plus other important info to help determine why you might have problems con...                What is a sperm allergy, and how do I know if I have one?   Find out who can have a sperm allergy. Women? Men? Both? And learn how a sperm allergy can affect your fertility and why this a...                Fertility drugs for women   These little wonder pills and injections promote ovulation, which may help you get pregnant but also increases your chance of m...                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                Emotional Health & Infertility   Infertility is hard to deal with. Get the basic facts along with expert advice about facing with this challenge.                    Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)   Find out if IVF, the most common of the high-tech fertility treatments, might be for you.                          Common causes of fertility problems in women   Find out some common reasons why a woman may have trouble conceiving.                Common causes of fertility problems in men   Find out some common reasons why a man may have trouble conceiving.                    I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                Identifying a Fertility Problem   Common causes of fertility issues in men and women, plus other important info to help determine why you might have problems con...                    What is a sperm allergy, and how do I know if I have one?   Find out who can have a sperm allergy. Women? Men? Both? And learn how a sperm allergy can affect your fertility and why this a...                Fertility drugs for women   These little wonder pills and injections promote ovulation, which may help you get pregnant but also increases your chance of m...                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                    Emotional Health & Infertility   Infertility is hard to deal with. Get the basic facts along with expert advice about facing with this challenge.                Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)   Find out if IVF, the most common of the high-tech fertility treatments, might be for you.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons         advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                               What’s New  Childrearing   Being A Mom  Mom Fun    Pregnancy & Health  Stuff   Holidays  Women’s Issues    News  About Us   Contact Us  Advertise  Write For Us  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy             Press "Enter" to Search                     5 Real Life Vasectomy Fails That Make My Uterus Quiver In Fear   08 Jan 2014  Bethany Ramos     Even typing the words “failed vasectomy” makes my vagina clamp shut like a clam and my empty womb turn to dust. Once I got so bold as to Google “failed vasectomy,” my worst fears were confirmed. It happens. Not often, but it happens enough to scare the hell out of me—a woman perfectly content with stopping at two kids.  Vasectomy success rates are estimated at more than 99%, which sounds great at face value. The reason my husband and I went for the big V instead of a tubal is mostly because of price. His vasectomy was only $1000, and it was an outpatient procedure that didn’t seem too uncomfortable for him from my outside perspective. In comparison, the Internets told me that a tubal ligation could cost up to $6000. We also figured that it was his turn to get his man parts smacked around for once. What a guy!     Anyhoo, in my world, vasectomy failure is the stuff nightmares are made of. While it’s highly unlikely to happen, there’s a slim chance I could end up with an unplanned baby after smugly assuming the baby factory is closed forever. Anytime you bring up the topic of vasectomy, there’s always someone who knows someone who knows someone that had baby #3 or #4 after their husband got snipped.  After checking out a few Internet forums, here are some of the scariest vasectomy failure stories I could find with real world consequences:  1. Failed vasectomy made husband’s penis shrivel up and die.     I don’t have any sage advice for this guy per se, but I do feel his metaphorical pain. Even though I’d ultimately love any “surprise” baby that came my way, I probably wouldn’t be too psyched about P-in-the-V until someone could present me with an ironclad contract that promised I would never be pregnant again.     2. Failed vasectomy = baby #4 = depression.   I really feel for this honest mother who is clearly distraught about having a much fuller house than she ever planned for. Even worse, it sounds like she and her husband did everything right and came back with a clear sperm sample but still fell into the minority “failure camp” of 0.6%. That just sucks.     3. Failed vasectomy led to I Didn’t Know I Was Pregnant nightmare scenario.     Whoa, just whoa. The back story on this couple was that they both didn’t want children by choice. What’s even more shocking is that this thin woman hardly gained any weight and didn’t even find out she was pregnant until 27 weeks! This couple ultimately stuck with adoption and ended up dealing with depression and undergoing therapy.   4. Failed vasectomies still happen to cheating douchebags.   If a run-of-the-mill vasectomy failure occurred, the wife could possibly be blamed for cheating since the husband was “fixed.” In this unfortunate story, the husband was smugly banging his secretary and ended up getting her pregnant after a surprise vasectomy bust. Doh!   5. Even the best vasectomy couldn’t stop this super sperm.   I don’t know what kind of bullets this guy is shooting, but they are powerful. After a vasectomy and three follow-up tests, his sperm just can’t take a hint. He may have to undergo a repeat procedure to boot. I don’t know if he should be proud or pissed.   (photo: Getty Images )       Explore  adoption birth control surprise pregnancy vasectomy     Share on Facebook  See all comments      Close comments           Related Stories         A New Study Says Cost Plays a Major Role in the Types of Contraceptives Women Choose         Amy Duggar Wants to Adopt the Children From the 'House of Horrors'         Jill Duggar and Derick Dillard Likely Can't Adopt         Clinical Trial for a Male Contraceptive Gel Will Begin Next Year         A Judge Said an Anonymous Sperm Donor Is a Boy's Real Parent & Not His Other Mom         The Reason This Mom Makes Her Kids Count All Their Candy Will Make You Cry         « You’ll Agree With Louis CK Even When He Doesn’t Want To Get His Kids Christmas Gifts Morning Feeding: The Part Of Parenthood We’re Too Scared To Talk About »    Loading...                   The site is part of the Clevver Network.     Home  Terms of Use  About Us  Contact Us                                Search TheLaborOfLove:                     « What Are Men’s Reactions To A Miscarriage?  What Are The Chances of Getting Pregnant From Pre-Ejaculation? »               What Are The Chances of Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy?   Health and Well-Being  4 Comments    Your partner having a vasectomy is not a 100% guarantee that you will not ever get pregnant.  There is a very small (but very real) failure rate for vasectomy.  There is about a 0.6% to 1% chance that a man will still conceive a child after having had a vasectomy.  The biggest risk of getting pregnant after your partner has had a vasectomy will occur in the first few months after the procedure.  When you get a vasectomy, the health care provider will generally schedule a series of semen tests for the weeks following your vasectomy to check for sperm.  One of the most common ways that a woman gets pregnant after her partner’s vasectomy is if they don’t practice an alternate form of birth control in those first few months.  While it varies from one man to the next, it generally takes around ten weeks before sperm stop showing up in the semen after having a vasectomy.  In general, a man will have to have somewhere between 25 and 30 ejaculations before no sperm can be found in the semen, however some men have needed as many as 60 ejaculations for this to occur.  In some cases, even after a semen test is taken in which no sperm are found, a man may later become potent and start having sperm in his semen again.  Any number of things can be responsible for this.  They can include a technical error in the vasectomy procecure, for example.  In some cases, the ends of the vasa that are cut can actually grow back together on their own.  In other cases, an opening can develop in the vasa that will allow sperm to come through.     All told, a vasectomy is one of the surest ways to prevent pregnancy, compared to other methods.  Natural methods of birth control are possibly the least reliable methods of preventing getting pregnant.  Using the withdrawal technique is about 96% effective;  using rhythm can be as little as 91% effective, or as high as 99% effective, depending on the individual woman and how exactly the method is practiced.  Barrier methods of birth control tend to be a little bit better in terms of preventing getting pregnant.  Using a sponge is about 91% effective.  Using spermicide alone or a diaphragm is around 94% effective.  Using a male condom is about 97% effective, and using a female condom about 95%.  Combining one of the other methods with spermicide can raise the effectiveness to around 99%, however.  Hormonal methods of birth control have some of the best statistics, and are comparable to the success rates of a vasectomy.  Norplant, for example, is 99.91% effective.  The Depo-Provera shot (sometimes called the Depo shot for short) is around 99.7% effective.  Birth control pills are around 99.1% effective.  Of course, one of the benefits of having a vasectomy as compared to other methods is that it is a one-time thing.  With other methods, their success rates depend greatly on you using them correctly; the effectiveness of condoms, for example, lessens to around 93% on average due to incorrect use.  With a vasectomy, you don’t have to worry about a condom breaking, or forgetting to take birth control pills.    Related Posts         <          Main Page  TLOL Blog  Articles  Trying to Conceive  Pregnancy  Babies  Parenting  Of Interest  Chinese Gender Chart   Search  Search TLOL  Search Full Network   Search Articles            Please feel free to email us at if you have any questions or comments! © Earth's Magic Inc 2000 - 2017. All Rights Reserved.  [ Disclaimer | Privacy Statement ]                      Menu                    Register  Login   EN    ENGLISH  DEUTSCH  ESPAÑOL          Couldn't find what you looking for?  TRY OUR SEARCH!                  Home     ...     Discussions      Family Health      Pregnancy      Could I Be Pregnant?      Is it possible to get pregnant 10 years after a vasectomy    By ajk | 230 posts, last post 3 minutes ago         Dr Artem Agafonov answered this
            Can Men Remain Fertile Even After Vasectomy?    Read more       New Reply    Follow     New Topic                                      Guest  over a year ago    Just to throw this out there, I just had my second vasectomy last week because things were still swimming.  I went back to the doctor who performed the original one, he confirmed it was performed right, even showed me the lab results of the specimens that were taken.  I figured out it didn't work by getting a sperm test on a whim, 5 yrs after I had my first vasectomy done.  Luckily, my partners have always taken the pill to regulate themselves.  Long story short, it does happen, I am proof. Get a sperm test done.     Reply                 Loading...                  Guest  over a year ago    My husband had a vasectomy after our 2nd child, he never wanted children, we had two and he loves them but was so SURE he was done after #2 that he went and got the procedure.  Now he wants more, our daughter is 4 1/2 and he had it done when she was just a couple months old.  The Dr told him to wait a year he might change his mind, he didn't wait and sure enought when our daughter was just over a year he said he wanted another one.  The cost of reversal or IVF is way too high.  I would love to hear someone say the have gotten pregnant from someone who had a vasectomy!  Please post if you have!  I am going to have my husband get a count done just to make sure.  Has anyone gotten a count done to verify still nothing swimming around?     Reply                 Loading...                  Kim &amp; Scott57589  over a year ago     ajk wrote: I am 34 and my husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago.My last normal period was around July 8.Around the time I would have started in Aug all I did was spot a couple of days brown and pinkish.Now this month nothing.I'm a week over and am having other symptoms like sore tingling breasts,nausa,lower back discomfort,a feeling like fullness in my lower stomach and light cramping.I have had three other children and the only other time I remember feeling this way  I was pregnant.      Reply                 Loading...             Kim &amp; Scott57589  over a year ago    My husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago and I am 10 weeks pregnant.  Needless to say shock does not describe the state that we are in.  My oldest will be 16 and the youngest will be 14 when the baby is born. I know that everything will be ok., but we were planning retirement and college. Now everything changes. i am 34 and my husband is 37. We are still young, but that is why we started early so we could spend our later years together.     Reply                 Loading...             ElderJ  over a year ago     ajk wrote: I am 34 and my husband had a vasectomy 10 years ago.My last normal period was around July 8.Around the time I would have started in Aug all I did was spot a couple of days brown and pinkish.Now this month nothing.I'm a week over and am having other symptoms like sore tingling breasts,nausa,lower back discomfort,a feeling like fullness in my lower stomach and light cramping.I have had three other children and the only other time I remember feeling this way  I was pregnant.   Funny that you should mention this, as I had a vasectomy 10 years ago, and my wife thought she had become pregnant, so she took a pregnancy test. Positive. She couldn't believe it, so she called her doctor, who told her that it would be VERY rare that I could impregnate her after 10 years (had the vasectomy not been complete, we should have seen something by now :) ).  Anyway, she is getting her blood work done in order to verify this. Please keep in mind, however, that we are both Seventh-Day Adventist and have a strong prayer life with God, so the whole miracle concept is not lost on us. This is going to be a strong test of faith, however, as my wife is 39 (turning 40 soon) and our last pregancy came with serious complications (undetectable toximia which nearly resulted in my wife losing her life).     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    I am also 2 weeks late and just tested negative, but the doc told me to test again next week.  I have all the typical symtoms of early pregnancy.  I do believe in miracles and ElderJ's experience gives me hope that it too can happen to us....vasectomy and all.  Was your wife confirmed pregnant?     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    I always see new babies and wish my hubby never had the procedure done but then see my two children 5 and 6 1/2 and them not being babies anymore and say to myself man I'm glad they are potty trained, etc. .   so i'm worried I haven't took a test yet but might on my way out later. . i didn't read through all the pages but has this happened to anyone??   I'm only 27 so I know i'm not going through menopause yet.     Reply                 Loading...             Guest  over a year ago    o.O Ok ... after reading a few of these, I'm really beginning to wonder. I am 3 weeks late, and I am never ever late for my AF, plus I have many symptoms of pregnancy, but these also mimic AF. I've been cramping nonstop for the past 2 weeks (Like I did 5 years ago while I was pregnant with our son.) My Hubby has had SA's done 3 times since his V, and all have been negative ... but I'm seriously wondering if it is even remotely possible. I am terrified to get a HPT. If I were younger, not a problem, but I'm going to be 42 this year & hubby 43. Our eldest child will be 20 in a few months, next in line will be 18, and then our 5 y/o. I would be extremely happy if I were, but also scared, because of my age. With him having 3 - tests ... is it even possible?????????????His V was October 17, 07  o.O  o.O  o.O     Reply                 Loading...             Tracy Weddle  over a year ago    All of your stories give me some hope because I deeply regret having my Husband get a vasectomy.  We have 2 boys and I want 1 more.  People often tell me that since his vasectomy was cauterized it is pretty much a done deal.  Were any of yours done that way that got pregnant?[/list]   Reply              Loading...        Guest  over a year ago     vasectomy 10 years on. might be pregnant. 41 years old. lots of different symptoms but cant rule out pregnancy. havent had period for 6 weeks now. normally body like clock work. bit concerned. testing for other things to rule out but considering I havent got my period I cant rule out pregnancy even though my partner has had a vasectomy....10 years ago!      Reply                 Loading...           Auntie T96142  over a year ago    I am hearing the same thing... but what about answers??  I live in a tiny tiny town.. to even purchase a preg test at 42.. would cause gossip! I have never been unfaithful, my husband had a vasectomy 9 years ago..but never went back for any other test.. still we have been very active  sexually for the last 9 years... and I have never been late,. my breast very sore.. I have 3 children 16 - 23..   it must be menopause... right?     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    My husband, too, has had a vasectomy,  14 years ago, but im not sure what kind. I would like to find out though. I have been on the Ortho Evra patch for three years because of my painful periods from my Endrometreosis.  I take off the patch every three or four months to have a period, and I took it off two weeks ago. I took two and a half days for it to start. It usually starts right away. My period lasted four days. I put the patch back on, but I have had sore swollen breasts for a week, now they are only half sore, headaches, sleeplessness, lower back pain,bloating, and also something kicking in my stomach, and even once it felt like it did a summersault!  For three weeks I had this kicking feeling, not it is not so much anymore. I took a home pregnancy test, and it was negative. I went to the doctor, and had a urine test done, it came back neg. I have six children 15, 14, 19, 5, 3, and 2. We adopted the four through foster care. I would love to have a miracle baby. Could I be pregnant?  The doctor looked at me like I was nuts. I am 39.     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    My DH had his vasectomy days before our last son was born.  He just turned 9 and I just had a positive hpt.  It was confirmed with the Dr then 2 weeks later I miscarried.  It is possible sometimes.  I pray it happens again.  I grew to really want this baby after knowing I was pregnant then losing it was devastating to us. :$     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    So partner had vasectomy 8 years ago. I am pregnant.  Yes it happens.  I suggest you all stop wondering and stressing and order a test kit!     Reply                 Loading...           Guest  over a year ago    I am feeling like all of the other women here. My husband is 13 years older than me and had a vesectomy after his last child from his previous marriage who is now 13 years old. I am now wanting to have a child with him and praying that I can concieve somehow..I have heard of some women on here finding out that they are pregnant, but I am starting to feel like there is no hope. We can not afford to pay for any reversals or anything like that so I am hoping for a blessing in my belly...Any thoughts of hope would be appreciated!     Reply                 Loading...               First     «     2 of 16     »     1   2   3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    Last        Quick reply             Editor's Picks           Can Men Remain Fertile Even After Vasectomy?    Infocenter articles   Vasectomy side effects  Is stomach flu contagious  Vasectomy reversal  Vasectomy pros and cons  Is there a cure for neurofibromatosis             Brown Vaginal Discharge             Varicocele, Male Fertility and What to Do About It               Causes Of Excess Burping Followed By Chest Pain             What to Do, or Not, When Parents Don't Love All Their Children Equally               Recovery From Lumbar Disc Surgery             Breastfeeding And ADHD                            Register on our site    Find health and lifestyle advices & Get answers! Share real-life experiences with more than 250,000 community members!   Email address   Submit   Loading...     Log in if you're already registered or take a look at the unread posts .           Related Topics       My husband had a vasectomy three years ago and I have had nausea for a week now    over a year ago        Spotting durnig pregnancy    over a year ago        i had two periods which werent normal within that month    over a year ago        Pregnancy symtoms last 6 weeks or so no missed period but li    over a year ago        can i be pregnant.    over a year ago        Salpingectomy and no fallopian tubes. is natural pregnancy possible?    over 8 months ago        My husband had a vasectomy but I seem to be pregnant    over a year ago        Pregnant after Vasectomy?    over a year ago        Normal occurrence when you stop b.c. pills mid-way through?    over a year ago        Very odd couple of months    over a year ago               Related Articles         The Gift of a Happy Parent         Home Remedies for Pneumonia in Children         Big Changes In Psychiatry's "Bible"         Vitamin B Rich Diet Lowers the Risk of Premenstrual Syndrome         What Is ADHD, And Who Gets It?                     OK         You may find this useful  ×  +      Possible pregnancy but didn't know this when I had some wine    Nausea for 3 weeks NOW Gooey Light Brown Discharge? HELP PLEASE    Could i actually be pregnant?    