                                    Vasectomy  Overview | How
            it works | The procedure | Complications | Risks | Effectiveness | Alternatives  What are your birth
            control options? You and your partner are absolutely sure that you do not want to have
          any more children. Sterilization is an available option, offering an
          almost completely safe and reliable form of permanent birth control.
          Because it is safer and less complicated, most physicians recommend
          male rather than female sterilization to couples.  The vasectomy is a simple office procedure
          in which a segment of the tubes carrying the sperm from the testicles
          is removed, and the ends are sealed off. The procedure takes about
          ten minutes and is performed under a local anesthetic. Check to see
          if you can have a scalpeless vasectomy, which uses a technique in which
          an incision is not made. Most men readily admit that the procedure
          is less painful than a visit to the dentist's office. Additionally,
          the only medication necessary afterward for the discomfort is a mild
          anti-inflammatory such as Advil or Tylenol. In order to minimize the
          discomfort and complications, it is important to stay off your feet
          for one to two days after the procedure. Most instances of complications
          from vasectomies occur because of too much activity following the procedure.  Family Planning:
            When Your Reproductive Years Are Behind You Family size is the most difficult decision most couples ever have to
          make. There are so many aspects to consider: the joy children bring
          to the household, the cost of supporting them, your or your spouse's
          career plans, the medical risks of pregnancy and temporary birth control
          methods, and, of course, what your faith tells you.  Temporary birth control methods—condoms, the diaphragm, the pill,
          etc.—let couples time their births and postpone taking more permanent
          measures. But, used long enough, every one of them might just fail.
          For that reason, many couples eventually choose a more-permanent approach—voluntary
          sterilization.  Only you, yours and your maker can decide about sterilization. But
          I can tell you most couples take time—between two and five years—to
          become sure enough to go ahead.  That's good. Though both common forms of sterilization can be surgically
          reversed, reversal is more complicated and expensive than sterilization,
          insurance companies usually won't pay for it and there's no guarantee
          of success. That's why I like to call sterilization "permanent."  Once you're confident that you're ready to put your reproductive years
          behind you, there are two options: vasectomy (male sterilization) or
          tubal ligation (female sterilization). Vasectomy makes you sterile
          by cutting the pipelines (the vas deferens) between the testicles and
          the penis. These small tubes are located just under the surface of
          the scrotal skin, and it takes less than 15 minutes in the doctor's
          office to snip them and seal the ends under a local anesthetic.  Tubal ligation involves cutting and tying a woman's fallopian tubes,
          which are well below muscles and other tissue in the abdomen. It requires
          a general anesthetic and a hospital visit.  A couple of statistics might make the differences even more clear:   Fatalities per 100,000: tubal
              ligation = 3.51; vasectomy = 0  Approximate cost: tubal ligation
              = $2,500; vasectomy = $750 - 850   Vasectomy is simpler, safer, cheaper
          and takes less time to recover from than tubal ligation. Their failure
          rates are just about the same: 1 in 2,000.  Still, most men naturally squirm at the thought of anyone tampering
          with that part of their bodies. If you hear horror stories about vasectomy,
          press for details. I assure you the tale will turn out to be at least
          third-hand and groundless. I've done more than 4,500 vasectomies and
          have never seen a serious complication. The most frequent comment is, "You
          mean it's over already?"  When a man has a vasectomy Friday afternoon and follows instructions—uses
          ice packs, elevates his feet and is inactive for the weekend (no matter
          how good he feels)—he's back to work on Monday barely feeling
          a thing.  It's worth discussing with your doctor what approach he uses and how
          many vasectomies he's done. Technique and experience can make a significant
          difference both in how quickly you're back on your feet and also in
          the likelihood of failure.  Is sex different after vasectomy? Not at all. Because the testicles
          supply less than 5 percent of the ejaculate, there's no noticeable
          difference in the semen. Erections and sex drive are unaffected—though
          freedom from worry of pregnancy often enhances a couple's sex life.  What about long-term health effects? No repeated studies have ever
          documented a hazard to men who have had vasectomies. And recently,
          researchers at Harvard University reported in the New England Journal
          of Medicine results from the largest study ever of vasectomized men.
          They were unable to associate vasectomy with any health problem in
          14,607 vasectomized men.  Don't choose vasectomy lightly. But if you and your spouse decide you're
          ready for permanent birth control, get the facts and consider it carefully.
          (Write the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, 79 Madison
          Avenue, New York, NY 10016, 212-561-8090, for more information. Please
          include a business-size self-addressed, stamped envelope.)  When you understand the choices, I think you'll agree guys, it's the
          least we can do for our women. [ top ]  Overview The vast majority of men who have a vasectomy are delighted by the
            results. But roughly two of every 100 end up regretting the decision.
            Almost without exception, it wasn't the vasectomy's fault. Those
            two simply weren't ready to accept permanent birth control. Usually,
            they're men who have entered a new relationship and have changed
            their mind about fatherhood. (Although vasectomy can sometimes be
            reversed, it should be considered permanent.)  Some of the positive signs that you
          may be ready to have vasectomy include:    You're in a stable, long-term
                marriage of 10 or more years, and both of you agree that you
                do not want more children.  You don't want to or can't use
                temporary methods of birth control.  You or your partner has an inheritable
                disorder that you don't want to risk passing along to a child.  Pregnancy poses a serious health
                risk to your partner.    On the other hand, some of the warning
          signs that vasectomy may not be a good choice include:    You are young.  You have few or no children.  Your relationship with your spouse
                is shaky.  Either you or your partner is
                less than certain about the choice.  You're worried about how it will
                affect your sexuality.  You think there's a chance you
                might want more children if your situation changes (for example,
                a new spouse, death of a child, or improvement in finances).  You think vasectomy reversal
                is a good option if your situation changes.  You're considering "banking" sperm
                just in case.  Your situation requires protection
                against sexually transmitted diseases. (Vasectomy offers no protection
                against STDs.)  You don't understand how vasectomy
                works, how it's done, what the side effects can be and what the
                alternatives are.   How vasectomy
              works Sperm are produced in a man's testes, and they mature in an area
            attached to the testes called the epididymis. It takes about 90 days
            from the time that the sperm are made for them to travel gradually
            up two tubes called the vas deferentia and become available for ejaculation.
            Prior to ejaculation, they're mixed with fluids from the seminal
            vesicles and the prostate to form semen. Vasectomy interrupts this
            process by closing off the vas deferentia, preventing the sperm from
            joining the other fluids. There is no noticeable change in the man's
            semen, because the sperm's contribution to volume is less than 5
            percent.  Vasectomy has no physical effect on a man's virility,
            because it doesn't change the testes' production of the male hormone,
            testosterone. His sex drive, potency, male characteristics, and sexual
            pleasure should be unchanged. (About 30 percent of men report improved
            sexuality after a vasectomy, most likely because the worry of pregnancy
            is eliminated.) After a vasectomy, sperm continue to be produced
            but at a decreased rate. Those that are produced die and are absorbed
            by the body—just as they would be in an unvasectomized man
            who did not ejaculate. [ top ]  How a vasectomy
              is done Vasectomy is a minor surgical procedure done in the doctor's office
            that removes a small section of each vas deferens and seals off the
            ends. Prior to the late 1980s, most vasectomies were done using a
            small scalpel, took about 30 minutes, and required a couple of days
            for full recovery. Around 1988, though, a Chinese technique was introduced
            to the United States. The no-scalpel vasectomy simplifies the procedure,
            reducing the total time to between 8 and 10 minutes. No incision
            is made, so no stitches are required. There is less discomfort during
            and after the procedure, complications such as bleeding are reduced,
            and recovery is quicker.  No scalpel vasectomy is done with a special tool that
            creates minimum disturbance. The prick of the needle for the local
            anesthetic is about the extent of what most men feel. Nearly 8,000
            vasectomies have been performed by Dr. Goldberg and the
            most common comment we hear is, "It's over? That's it?" Most
            men don't even need Tylenol afterward, let alone a prescription pain
            killer. Likewise, the pain isn't too great when the bill comes. Vasectomy
            typically costs $800.  If possible, you should have someone come along to
            drive you home, but we've had men drive a couple of hours both ways
            to have a vasectomy here. Spending a couple of days afterward resting
            and applying an ice pack to your scrotum will greatly speed your
            recovery and reduce the risk of complications. [ top ]  Complications
              from vasectomy Only about 10 percent of men experience any sort of complication
            from a vasectomy, and these are usually minor. There has never been
            a death with a vasectomy. Of course, as is the case with any surgical
            procedure, there's always a small risk for bleeding, infection, or
            allergic reaction to the anesthetic, causing a rash. Complications
            specific to vasectomy include the possibility of a sperm granuloma,
            testicular pain, and epididymitis. Also, in very rare instances,
            a man can lose a testicle.  A sperm granuloma occurs if sperm leak
            from the vasectomy site or a rupture in the epididymis and provoke
            an inflammatory reaction. About a half-inch in diameter, they require
            further attention in only about two percent of men. About one percent
            of men experience aching testicles from congestion in the epididymis.
            This usually disappears within six months. Epididymitis is an inflammation
            at the vasectomy site, usually taking place within the first year.
            Heat and anti-inflammatory medicine usually clear it up in about
            a week.  By far the most common complication
            we see is swelling of the scrotum in guys who refuse to take it easy
            for a couple of days after a vasectomy. Unfortunately, once the swelling
            starts, it may take two weeks for it to reduce completely, so prevention
            is the best approach. [ top ]  What
              are the risks of vasectomy? A study has shown that men who have had a vasectomy have an increased
            incidence of prostate
            cancer after 20 years. Since that report, other studies
            have noted that there is no increased incidence of prostate cancer.
            The Male Health Center is monitoring current developments regarding
            this possibility and will be happy to discuss the risk factors in
            more detail at the time of your consultation.  For at least the first six weeks after the procedure, you will be
            advised to use another form of birth control. Afterward, the man's
            semen is checked to ensure no sperm are present. Total charge for
            a vasectomy is typically less than $900. [ top ]  Long-term risks
              of vasectomy Vasectomy is one of the most studied of all medical procedures, yet
            rumors of long-term risks have persisted almost since the beginning
            of its use in the U.S. in the 1960s. To date, the body of medical
            evidence indicates that it is quite safe. Both the National Institutes
            of Health and the World Health Organization have given it a clean
            bill.  Although risks such as heart disease
            and arthritis were pretty much debunked by the 1980s, vasectomy's
            effect on the risk of prostate cancer continues to be studied. Although
            some studies have suggested a relation between the two, others have
            not. A panel of experts was convened by the National Institutes of
            Health to study the available research, and it concluded that the
            evidence for a link between vasectomy and prostate cancer was inconsistent
            and insufficient. No changes were recommended, including no increased
            screening for prostate cancer among men who have had vasectomies. [ top ]         How effective
              is it? The overall failure rate for vasectomy rate is 0.15 percent, but
            that doesn't give an accurate picture of its real effectiveness.
            Most vasectomy failures happen during the first couple of months
            after the procedure, when live sperm may still present in a man's
            semen. Couples must continue to use another method of birth control
            until the man has ejaculated about 20 times (clearing the sperm)
            over as long as six months and tests (we require two) have shown
            that no live sperm remain. Some men skip the tests and end up regretting
            it. About one of every 4,000 vasectomies fails because the vas deferentia
            manage to reconnect—a failure rate of 0.025 percent. [ top ]  What are the
              alternatives? Up to 40 percent of couples considering permanent birth control have
            experienced a failure with a temporary method—such as condoms,
            a diaphragm, spermicides, IUDs, hormonal implants, and the pill—so
            the obvious alternative to vasectomy is tubal ligation for the woman.
            By comparison, tubal ligation is a more involved surgical procedure,
            costing about $1,500 to $2,500, with a greater rate of complication.
            To put it in perspective, the fatality rate for tubal is 3.51 per
            100,000—compared with zero for vasectomy.  Despite the obvious advantages of vasectomy, more tubal
            ligations (about 600,000) than vasectomies (about 500,000) are performed
            each year. Why? Most likely because women have traditionally taken
            the responsibility for birth control. Vasectomy offers men the opportunity
            to begin to set the record straight. [ top ]  What about female sterilization? Tubal ligation is a procedure in which a woman's fallopian tubes
              are severed or sealed off, which prevents the egg from being fertilized
              by sperm. Unlike vasectomy, which is a simple outpatient procedure,
              tubal ligation typically is more complex and can require a hospital
              stay. Sometimes tubal ligation can be performed at an ambulatory
              surgery center.  In the most common tubal ligation procedure, the woman's
            fallopian tubes are sealed off with tiny metal rings or clips. It
            is necessary that two incisions be made just below the navel. The
            costs for tubal ligation, including surgeon's fees, operating room
            facility, and anesthesiologist's charges, range anywhere from $1,500
            to $2,500. The procedure requires a general or regional anesthetic.
            A recent study showed that there was an 18 percent incidence of reconnection
            after tubal ligation. [ top ]  What if you change
              your mind? We can plan, but we can't predict the future. So a few man who have
            had a vasectomy—about one in 100 — will attempt to reverse
            it. Fortunately, microsurgical techniques developed in recent years
            have greatly improved the likelihood of success. Two types of surgical
            procedures are used to reverse vasectomy. In men who still have sperm
            present in their vas deferentia, vasovasostomy reconnects the vas.
            When no sperm are found (about one-third of all cases), the far ends
            of the vas deferentia can be directly connected to the epididymis,
            using a technique called vasoepididymostomy.  Neither method of reconnection is easy,
            certain of success, or cheap. Although both can often be done at
            an ambulatory surgery center, with the man going home the same day,
            vasovasostomy takes two to three hours, and vasoepididymostomy can
            take five. The cost will be somewhere between $5,000 and $15,000.
            Overall, the rates of pregnancy are about 50 percent and 20 percent
            respectively, but the chances also depend on how recently the man
            had the vasectomy. For vasovasostomy, the chances of pregnancy are
            as high as three-quarters for the first three years, declining to
            about half for years three through eight, and as low as one-third
            after the fifteenth year. Vasectomy reversal actually turns up sperm
            in semen considerably more often than the pregnancy numbers suggest.
            But sperm don't guarantee pregnancy, and pregnancy is the goal.  If reconnection fails, there is yet
            another option for couples who want children. In a new procedure,
            sperm are aspirated directly from a man's testicle and injected into
            an egg removed from the woman. Once fertilization takes place, the
            egg can be implanted in the woman, where normal gestation can take
            place. Needless to say, this is more complicated and expensive than
            reconnection, and the odds of success are lower.  As you can see, a man who wants to
            reverse his vasectomy has pretty good odds of success. But it's still
            not something to count on when considering a vasectomy as a birth
            control option. [ top ]      About
          us | Contact
            us | Referring
              physicians | Topics | Prevention | Male
                Health Quiz | Resources | For
                Women | Home  Copyright © 2017 MedIngenuity, LLC Business Development for Physicians    Need more
                information on male health issues?   Click here for information on diet, nutrition and health resource books. Learn when to see the doctor and what causes symptoms.    Copyright © 2006
              THE MALE HEALTH CENTER, LEWISVILLE, TEXAS                   Our Chesapeake Urology Network Sites    Chesapeake Urology  Chesapeake Aesthetic Surgery  Erectile Dysfunction  Dr. Karen Boyle  Dr. Julio Davalos      Dr. David Fenig  Dr. Brad Lerner  Endourology Fellowship  Men's Personal Health  Urological Consultants      Prostate Cancer Care  Vasectomy Reversal of America  Women's Personal Health  Zero Prostate Cancer Challenge       Return to Chesapeake Urology Our Network                 855.HAVE.A.BABY    Patient Portal Online Bill Pay Resources Contact    Search      About Vasectomy Reversal The procedure What to expect FAQs After surgery SUCCESS RATES Alternative Options About Us Why VRCA Affiliations Physicians Karen Boyle, M.D. David Fenig, M.D. Cost Cost Components Insurance coverage Financing Success Stories Blog                              The Truth About Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy Reversal   Many women become dismayed when almost 12 months have gone by since their partner's vasectomy reversal and they are still not pregnant.  Month after month of negative pregnancy tests can certainly take its toll on any woman's spirit, but when it comes to getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal, it's important to know what's realistic and understand the facts.  What to Expect  First and foremost, following a vasectomy reversal, it takes several months, if not longer, to return to a normal sperm count. When a man has had a vasovasostomy, you can expect to see sperm back in the ejaculate by three months. If we do not see sperm in the ejaculate after three months, then the reversal has not been successful. With an epididymovasostomy, a more complex procedure that is performed at the Vasectomy Reversal Center of America when a blockage in the epididymis is found, it can take six to 12 months to see the presence of sperm in the ejaculate. However, presence of sperm doesn't necessarily mean a normal count. Yes, you want to see sperm present in the ejaculate, but then it has to normalize.  Conceiving is a Process  Getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal is usually a six to 12 month process. It's important to understand that a man turns over his sperm reserve every three to four months. After a vasectomy reversal, it can take a couple of turnovers of sperm reserve, or approximately six to nine months, before sperm count returns to a level where getting pregnant is optimal. At this point, it can still take another six months or so for a couple to conceive.  So while getting pregnant within a few months after the reversal is certainly not unheard of, it's also not the norm.  The most important thing following a vasectomy reversal is to monitor the semen analysis and the sperm for motility. We take a semen analysis at the six to eight week mark and then every one to two months thereafter to ensure the counts have stabilized.  Once the semen analysis shows optimal sperm count and motility,  we typically give couples six months to get pregnant with timed intercourse; that is, monitoring ovulation, having intercourse every other day, four to five days before through about four to five days after ovulation. If a man has a normal sperm count and the couple is having timed intercourse for six months, pregnancy should occur.  If a couple has not conceived within this time, we make sure the sperm counts are still normal and then we will evaluate the female partner for fertility issues.  Getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal is a process, and it sometimes can be a long process. There are many factors that come into play for couples trying to conceive, from semen quality to a woman's age. Don't become discouraged if you're not pregnant after only a few months following the reversal.  Conception takes time, and good things often come to those who can wait.  Leave your comments - share your experiences about conceiving after a vasectomy reversal here. Or call us at 855-428-3222 with any questions or to schedule a consultation.    Copyright ©2013         Blog Maryland Doctor's Vasectomy Reversal Delivers New Bundle of Joy When a Man Changes His Mind Reversal and sexual function How Age Affects Vasectomy Reversal Helping More Men Celebrate Father's Day Vasectomy Reversal Vs. IVF - When is Vasectomy Reversal the Best Option? Do's and Don'ts After a Vasectomy Reversal Engage With The VRCA On Facebook Things Are Getting Personal Around Here Mini Incision Vs. Microsurgical Vasectomy Reversal Can You Afford to Have a Vasectomy Reversal The Truth About Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy Reversal Increasing Sperm Count After a Vasectomy Reversal Vasectomy Reversal a Decade after a Vasectomy Yes, it’s possible Women over 40 getting pregnant- how age affects fertility Thinking Through the Vasectomy Reversal Decision Infertility- it's not always about the female How Successful are Vasectomy Reversals 5 Truths About Vasectomy Reversal Top 3 Myths about Vasectomy Reversal to Throw Out the Window                  Josh and Jamie   We are happy to inform you that we conceived 10 WEEKS PAST SURGERY!!!! I'm currently in my 7th week and had an ultrasound last week. ...  Read their stories >                                                                                                       Our Affiliations                    Microsurgical Vasectomy reversal  the procedure  what to expect  AFTER SURGERY  SUCCESS RATES  faq's  ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS   Our Physicians  Karen Boyle, m.d.  David Fenig, m.d.  Brad Lerner, m.d.   Cost  cost components  financing  insurance coverage   about us  why vrca  affiliations   success stories  Patient resources  locations & directions  Forms  visiting baltimore  hipaa privacy policy     *Results vary by individual.   VRCA Blog                VRCA Blog                  Follow Us         The Vasectomy Reversal Center of America is a Division of                     © 2018 Vasectomy Reversal Center of America. All rights reserved.     privacy policy  terms of use  sitemap                           Skip to content     menu      UI Hospitals and Clinics                 MyChart  Pay A Bill  Appointments        Patients & Visitors  Primary & Specialty Care  Health Topics  About Us  Find a Doctor      Search form  Search               You are here Home / Health Topics / Vasectomy Reversals: Frequently Asked Questions        Vasectomy Reversals: Frequently Asked Questions             Vasectomies can be reversed even after very long periods of time, sometimes after more than 25 years. Sperm are constantly being produced in men and even after time, there should be viable sperm. However, the success of the reversal, in terms of achieving a pregnancy, is dependent upon the experience of the surgeon, the age and fertility status of the female partner, and the length of time since the vasectomy.  The surgeon noted that he both cauterized and tied the vas during surgery. Would that reduce the positive outcome of an operation?  No. The outcome of the surgery is more dependent upon what is found at the time of the reversal as well as the experience of the surgeon performing the reversal surgery. During the reversal, the surgeon will check for sperm within the vas. If sperm is present, then the two ends of the vas deferens can be put back together, and the success rate should be fairly high. However, if there is no sperm at the end of the vas, there is likely a blockage closer to the testicle. Then, a more complicated surgery may be performed, but this procedure has a lower success rate.  Is there ever any nerve damage when a vasectomy is performed? If reversed, will the nerves restore themselves?  It is possible but rare that significant pain from nerve damage can occur after a vasectomy. There are some cases where a reversal will help with the pain, but these are rare. A full work-up should be performed before undergoing a vasectomy reversal as the success rate in getting rid of the pain may not be very high.  How is the surgery performed? Does it require general anesthetic and how many hours? How about recovery?  Most vasectomy reversals are performed as an outpatient surgery and can be done under local, regional or general anesthesia. It typically takes approximately 3 to 4 hours using an operating microscope to perform the surgery. Recovery is variable and can take anywhere from 5 to 14 days. We recommend avoiding heavy lifting and sexual intercourse during the first 4 weeks after this surgery.  Does insurance pay for vasectomy reversal?  The cost of the surgery, as well as whether or not it is covered by insurance, is variable, and dependent upon where the surgery is performed and the patient's individual insurance policy.  What is the typical cost?  Cost can range anywhere from approximately $2,000 to $12,000, depending upon the surgeon, the type of practice where it is performed, and what part of the country the patient lives in.  Is there anyone who is automatically NOT a candidate for vasectomy reversal?  There are certainly some patients who are better candidates than others; time from the vasectomy is not necessarily a reason not to have a reversal. However, in the case of a couple where the woman has, for instance, had a tubal ligation, sperm aspiration combined with in-vitro fertilization is probably a better choice than performing vasectomy reversal followed by tubal ligation reversal.  Please explain the probability of any side effects... impotence, urinary incontinence, etc.  Side effects are typically minimal and usually would include swelling, pain or bruising; however, the vasectomy itself and the reversal should not have any effect upon potency or urinary function.  What is the effective rate of reversal?  The success rate varies based on several factors. Time from the vasectomy certainly helps to predict how likely it would be to be able to put the two ends of the vas deferens back together; however, getting return of sperm into the ejaculate does not guarantee pregnancy, so pregnancy rates typically vary from 30 to 70 percent, whereas patency rate, that is the return of sperm, can be as high as 95 percent.  Are there other means of "fertility" that I should consider as options to reversal?  The only other option to a reversal that would allow use of a man's sperm with the woman's egg would be surgical sperm retrieval (through either extraction or aspiration) combined with in-vitro fertilization. The sperm removed from the testicle can be injected directly into the eggs that have been retrieved from the woman after she has been stimulated with hormone injections.  This is a very effective but expensive treatment with relatively good success rates. However, it is not possible to remove enough sperm from the man's testicle to inseminate the woman.  If antibodies from your immune system are present, why does this affect pregnancy rates?  There is some debate about the effects of antibodies on pregnancy rates after vasectomy reversal. Approximately 70 to 80 percent of men who have had vasectomies will have antibodies to their sperm. However, these antibodies rarely prevent the sperm from fertilizing the egg. Therefore, we counsel patients that it is unnecessary to routinely test for antibodies, as they rarely will have a bad effect upon the success rate.  What are the risks of cancer and do they increase with the reversal?  There was a report several years ago stating that men with vasectomies had a higher rate of prostate cancer. This report has since been challenged and, for the most part, disproven. There is also no evidence to show that reversal of the vasectomy would have any effect upon risk of cancer.  How many times can a reversal be done?  There is no maximum number of times that a man can have a reversal, although the success rate may decrease with increased number of reversals. However, there is good data to show that “redo-reversals” can have as high a success rate as first-time reversals. The more surgery is performed, the greater the likelihood of scarring in the scrotum, making subsequent surgeries more difficult.  What are my options if you do not find sperm in the vas at the time of surgery?  If the surgeon is experienced in doing vasectomy reversals, they should be able to find the blockage, which is likely to be in the epididymis, and perform the bypass above that point. However, if the surgeon is not able to perform this bypass, then the best thing to do is reattach to two ends of the vas and hope for the best. That is why it is important that prior to surgery, the patient question the surgeon regarding their experience in vasectomy reversals to determine if they would be able to perform both types of bypasses.  I had a reversal and checked okay at 6 weeks. Would scarring be a concern after this amount of time?  Scarring can occur at any time after a vasectomy reversal although it typically occurs within the first six months. Therefore, even if there was sperm in the ejaculate after six weeks, it is possible that scarring could occur later on. We typically offer sperm banking in case late scarring does occur.  How would I find a good surgeon for the procedure?  It is important to choose a surgeon who performs reversals on a regular basis, preferably someone with fellowship training or other special training in male infertility. Patients should ask the surgeon how often they perform the procedure, what their own personal success rate is, both in obtaining sperm and pregnancy rates, and if they have the ability to perform both types of reversals.  Are there any effects to the sperm quality after several years of a vasectomy and reattachment?  The sperm quality should return to normal 3 to 6 months following a reversal as it takes that long for the testicles to make new sperm. However, the count and the motility may be lower after reversal due to partial blockage or scarring.  How often should you check on scarring?  We typically recommend checking every 3 months, and we offer sperm banking based upon the quality of the sample. The chance of scarring is approximately 7 to 10 percent in the first 1 to 2 years following a successful reversal.  What are the statistics of men in the United States who are infertile and can that be reversed?  The incidence of male infertility is not well known, however, approximately 15 percent of U.S. couples have fertility problems and half of those are related to the male factor. Therefore, in any couple that is having fertility problems, there is a 50 percent chance that the male may be involved and therefore he should be evaluated.  Is it safe to get a boy a vasectomy for his 18th birthday then be able to switch it back later when he decides to have children?  No, we do not feel that is a reasonable option. Vasectomy reversals do not always work and in someone who is both young and never fathered children, it is probably not a good idea. We would counsel this patient to reconsider having a vasectomy. Prior to a vasectomy, the patient and his partner should be absolutely sure that they are done having children.  How does one prepare for the vasectomy or the reversal?  Prior to a vasectomy, the patient and his partner should be absolutely sure that they are done having children. There are no special preparations in terms of abstaining from ejaculation prior to either the vasectomy or the reversal. The patient should be aware that a vasectomy reversal is a more expensive procedure than the original vasectomy and likely will take longer to recover.  What is the recovery for a vasectomy and the reversal?  Most men will recover from a vasectomy in a couple of days. We typically recommend taking it easy for 2 days, using ice packs and scrotal support, and then going back to work 2 or 3 days later. However, vasectomy reversals tend to take longer, depending on the type of work that the patient does. While some men can return to a desk job in 3 or 4 days, we recommend that heavy construction and lifting should be avoided for 4 weeks after a vasectomy reversal.  What is the oldest age for a male to be considered for reversal?  The success of the reversal is related more to the age of the female rather than the male. Therefore, there is no age limit for a reversal.  Have any studies been done to show what the psychological/emotional problems are for a vasectomy or reversal?  A report on psychological factors prior to a vasectomy has suggested that most men are not worried about having a vasectomy, but they are a little concerned regarding the recovery of a vasectomy. Very few men have reported serious psychological or emotional problems following their vasectomy.        Interested in using our health content?   Use of Health Topics         Locations & Contact          University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics    200 Hawkins Drive Iowa City , IA  52242      Urology Clinic     Urology Clinic    Elevator E, Level 3    319-356-2421    Male Infertility Clinic     Urology Clinic    Elevator E, Level 3    319-356-2421          Additional Locations                  Your Visit  Find a Doctor  MyChart  Request an Appointment  Share Your Story  UIeCare      Employees  Job Seekers  Nursing at Iowa  Donate  Referring Providers  Volunteers  Questions, Comments, Complaints      UI Health Care  UI Stead Family Children's Hospital  UI Physicians  UI Carver College of Medicine  About Us         University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics   200 Hawkins Drive  Iowa City , IA  52242   800-777-8442                           Nondiscrimination Notice  Aviso de No Discriminación  無歧視一視同仁聲明  Tuyên bố không kỳ thị  Izjava bez diskriminacije  ...      Servicio de Interpretes Gratuito  免費翻譯服務  Thông dịch viên miễn phí  Bezplatna usluga prevodilaca/tumaca  ...        HIPAA Privacy Policy  Web Privacy Policy     Copyright © 2018 The University of Iowa . All Rights Reserved.                                  This content does not have an English version.  This content does not have an Arabic version.           Menu  Patient Care & Health Info Quality Care Find out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment. . Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases & Conditions A-Z Tests & Procedures A-Z Drugs & Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Patient Online Services Departments & Centers Meet the Staff Find a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now. . Doctors & Medical Staff Medical Departments & Centers Research Centers & Programs About Mayo Clinic Contact Us Research Research and Clinical Trials See how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now. . Explore Research Labs Find Clinical Trials Research Faculty Postdoctoral Fellowships Discovery's Edge Magazine Search Publications Training Grant Positions Education Visit Our Schools Educators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree. . Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Alumni Center For Medical Professionals Professional Services Explore Mayo Clinic’s many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates. . Provider Relations Online Services for Referring Physicians Video Center Publications Continuing Medical Education Mayo Medical Laboratories Products & Services Healthy Living Program Sports Medicine Books and more ... Mayo Clinic Health Letter Medical Products Population Health and Wellness Programs Medical Laboratory Services Mayo Clinic Voice Apps Giving to Mayo Clinic Give to Mayo Clinic Help set a new world standard in care for people everywhere. Give now. . Give Now Your Impact Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us to Give Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Job Give Now    Search           Twitter Facebook Google YouTube Pinterest     Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Job Give Now       Log in to Patient Account    English   Español  Português  العربية  中国语          Request an Appointment    Patient Care & Health Information  Tests & Procedures    Vasectomy reversal    Sections About Care at Mayo Clinic         Overview Vasectomy reversal is surgery to undo a vasectomy. It reconnects each tube (vas deferens) that carries sperm from a testicle into the semen. After a successful vasectomy reversal, sperm are again present in the semen and you may be able to get your partner pregnant.  Success rates with vasectomy reversal will range from about 40 percent to over 90 percent. Many factors affect whether a reversal is successful in achieving pregnancy, including time since a vasectomy, partner age, definition of success, and surgeon experience and training.          Mayo Clinic's approach      Why it's done Men decide to have a vasectomy reversal for a number of reasons, including loss of a child, a change of heart or remarriage. A small number of men have a vasectomy reversal to treat testicular pain that may be linked to a vasectomy.            Infertility — Not just a female condition   Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic  Risks Almost all vasectomies can be reversed. However, this doesn't guarantee success in conceiving a child. Vasectomy reversal can be attempted even if several years have passed since the original vasectomy — but the longer it's been, the less likely it is that the reversal will work.  Vasectomy reversal rarely leads to serious complications. Risks include:   Bleeding within the scrotum. This can lead to a collection of blood (hematoma) that causes painful swelling. You can reduce the risk of hematoma by following your doctor's instructions to rest after surgery. Ask your doctor if you need to avoid aspirin or other types of blood-thinning medication before and after surgery.  Infection at the surgery site. Although very uncommon, infections are a risk with any surgery and may require treatment with antibiotics in certain situations.  Chronic pain. Persistent pain after vasectomy reversal is very uncommon.   How you prepare When considering vasectomy reversal, here are a few things to think about:   Vasectomy reversal may be expensive, and your insurance might not cover it. Find out about costs ahead of time.  Vasectomy reversals are generally most successful when they're done by a surgeon who is trained in and uses microsurgical techniques.  The procedure is most successful when performed by a surgeon who has done the procedure many times.   When choosing a doctor, don't be afraid to ask questions about how many vasectomy reversals the doctor has done, the type of techniques used and how often the vasectomy reversals have resulted in pregnancy. Also ask about the risks and potential complications of the procedure.  Food and medications Make sure you know what steps you need to take before surgery. Your doctor will probably ask you to stop taking certain medications, including blood-thinning medications and pain relievers, such as aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), because they can increase your risk of bleeding.  Clothing and personal items Bring tight-fitting undergarments, such as an athletic supporter, to wear after surgery. This will support your scrotum and hold bandages in place.  Other precautions Arrange for someone to drive you home after surgery. Surgery generally takes about three to four hours. You may need additional time to recover from anesthesia. Ask your doctor when you can expect to go home after surgery.  What you can expect Before the procedure  Before vasectomy reversal surgery, your doctor will likely want to:   Take your history and perform a physical exam. Your doctor will want to make sure that you don't have health concerns that could complicate surgery.  Check to see whether you can produce healthy sperm. For most men, having fathered a child before is proof enough. In rare cases, if your doctor is unsure whether you are producing healthy sperm, you may need additional testing.  Confirm that your partner is capable of having a child. Your doctor will want to see whether your partner has any fertility problems, especially if your partner has never had a child or is older than age 40. This may require a gynecological examination and other tests.   Doctors usually perform vasectomy reversals at a surgery center or hospital. The procedure is generally done on an outpatient basis — without an overnight stay.  Your doctor may use general anesthesia to make you unconscious during surgery. Or your surgeon may give you an anesthetic that keeps you from feeling pain, but doesn't put you to sleep — such as an epidural, spinal or local anesthetic.  Vasectomy reversal is more difficult than a vasectomy. It requires specialized skills and expertise. Doctors performing this surgery usually will re-attach the vas deferens in one of two ways:   Vasovasostomy (vas-o-vay-ZOS-tuh-me). With this procedure, the surgeon sews back together the severed ends of each tube that carries sperm (vas deferens).  Vasoepididymostomy (vas-o-ep-ih-did-ih-MOS-tuh-me). This surgery attaches the vas deferens directly to the small organ at the back of each testicle that holds sperm (epididymis). A vasoepididymostomy is more complicated than a vasovasostomy and is generally chosen if a vasovasostomy can't be done or isn't likely to work.   You probably won't know ahead of time which technique is needed. In most cases, the surgeon decides during the operation which technique will work best.  Sometimes a combination of the two surgical techniques is needed — a vasovasostomy on one side and a vasoepididymostomy on the other. The decision to perform a vasovasostomy versus a vasoepididymostomy depends on whether sperm are seen when fluid from the vas deferens is analyzed at the time of surgery.  During the procedure During surgery, your doctor will make a small cut (incision) on the underside of your scrotum. This will expose the tube that carries sperm (vas deferens) and release it from surrounding tissues.  Next, the doctor will cut open the vas deferens and examine the fluid inside. When sperm are present in the fluid, the ends of the vas deferens can be connected to re-establish the passageway for sperm.  If the fluid is thick or pasty, or if it contains no sperm or partial sperm, scar tissue may be blocking sperm flow. In this case, your doctor may choose to perform a vasoepididymostomy.  After the procedure Immediately after surgery, your doctor will cover the incisions with bandages. You'll put on tight-fitting undergarments, such as an athletic supporter, and apply ice to reduce swelling.  You may be sore for several days. If your doctor places bandages over the incisions after your surgery, ask when it's OK to take them off. Any stitches should dissolve in seven to 10 days.  After you return home, take it easy and try to limit any activities that might cause the testicles to move around excessively. As the anesthetic wears off, you may have some pain and swelling. For most men, the pain isn't severe and gets better after a few days to a week.  Your doctor may also give you the following instructions:   Wear an athletic supporter for several weeks at all times, except when showering. After that, you'll need to continue to wear it during exercise.  For the first two days after surgery, avoid anything that might get the surgery site wet, such as bathing or swimming.  Limit any activities that may pull on the testicles or scrotum, such as jogging, sporting activities, biking or heavy lifting, for at least two to four weeks after surgery.  If you have a desk job, you'll probably be able to return to work a few days after surgery. If you perform physical labor or have a job that requires much walking or driving, talk to your doctor about when it's safe to go back to work.  Don't have sexual intercourse or ejaculate until your doctor says it's OK. Most men need to refrain from sex for two to three weeks after surgery.   Freezing sperm If your doctor finds sperm during surgery, you may choose to have some frozen in case your vasectomy reversal doesn't work (cryopreservation). If you're not able to father a child through sexual intercourse, you may still be able to have children through assisted reproductive techniques such as in vitro fertilization.  For more information on determining whether freezing sperm at the time of your vasectomy reversal is appropriate for you, go to the " Costs & insurance " page.  Results About six to eight weeks after surgery, your doctor will examine your semen under a microscope to see if the operation was successful.  Your doctor may want to check your semen periodically. Unless you get your partner pregnant, checking your semen for sperm is the only way to tell if your vasectomy reversal was a success.  When a vasectomy reversal is successful, sperm usually appear in the semen after a few months, but it can sometimes take a year or more. The likelihood of achieving pregnancy depends on various factors, including the length of time that passed since the vasectomy and the female partner's age.  If the vasectomy reversal doesn't work Vasectomy reversals sometimes fail if there is an underlying issue with the testicle, which cannot be recognized during surgery, or if a blockage develops sometime after surgery. Some men have a second-attempt vasectomy reversal surgery if the procedure doesn't work the first time.  You may also be able to father a child through in vitro fertilization by using frozen sperm retrieved during a semen analysis during your vasectomy reversal. If you didn't have sperm frozen or you do not have any sperm in your ejaculate, in vitro fertilization may still be possible using sperm retrieved directly from your testicle or epididymis.  How can I find out my predicted success rate? There are many factors that contribute to a successful outcome. To receive an estimate of your anticipated success rate, please email VasectomyReversal@mayo.edu and request a questionnaire.  Once your responses are received, they will be compared to a database of success rates to give you estimates of the chance of return of any sperm, sperm counts considered within "normal" range, pregnancy rate and risks of later failure after an initial success. It typically takes 1 to 2 business days to receive an email back once you submit the form.  Clinical trials   Explore Mayo Clinic studies testing new treatments, interventions and tests as a means to prevent, detect, treat or manage this disease.  Frequently Asked Questions How do I pick a surgeon? Several factors are important when selecting a male fertility surgeon and health care team, including experience, surgical abilities, technology and support staff.  Because vasectomy reversal is a very specialized procedure, the training and experience of your surgeon will likely have the biggest impact on your overall outcomes. Surgeons who have the most training to treat male infertility are urologists who have received specialized fellowship training in microsurgery and male fertility.  Although the majority of vasectomy reversals will only require surgery within the scrotum, in some cases, a reconstruction is required inside of the abdomen. This sometimes occurs when the vas deferens has become blocked from causes other than a vasectomy, such as after a hernia repair. In these cases, often the traditional repair of the vas deferens cannot be performed, and a more complex procedure (robotic-assisted intra-abdominal repair of the vas deferens) is required. Very few surgeons have experience with both traditional microscopic and robotic-assisted techniques required to perform a successful repair in cases such as this.  When choosing a doctor, don't be afraid to ask questions about how many vasectomy reversals the doctor has done, the type of techniques used and how often the vasectomy reversals have resulted in pregnancy.  How can I compare success rates between surgeons? Given the complexity of couples' fertility, success rates with vasectomy reversals are difficult to define. In addition, the most important measure of success — a healthy baby — is not commonly reported in studies.  Reported success rates following vasectomy reversal are often oversimplified. Some surgeons only operate on men who are more likely to have a successful outcome (younger men with less time since the vasectomy), which may artificially increase reported success rates. Some only report outcomes if a vasovasostomy is performed on both sides and exclude results from more complex, and less successful, procedures.  Similarly, the definition of success is not consistent between surgeons. Some will call a vasectomy reversal successful if one sperm is seen at any point after the procedure, while others require over 1 million sperm to be considered a success. This is important because a normal sperm count is considered to be more than 39 million sperm per ejaculation, with 40 percent of those sperm being motile.  It's important to know that over time a percentage of men with an initially successful reversal will experience a failure with few or no sperm in the ejaculate. It's not clear why this happens, but it may occur even several months after an initially successful procedure.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of vasectomy reversal and assisted reproductive techniques (ART)? Benefits of vasectomy reversal include the minimally invasive nature of the procedure, lower cost, natural conception, ability to father more than one child without additional procedures, option to freeze sperm at the time of reversal and ease in retrieving sperm if assisted reproductive techniques (ART) are desired in the future.  Disadvantages include the possible need for another reversal (if the initial reversal is unsuccessful), occasional inadequate sperm counts to achieve a pregnancy and limited data on long-term success rates.  Advantages with ART include greater control of the timing of pregnancy, ability to perform with low sperm counts and optional chromosomal testing on the embryo to be implanted. Disadvantages are costs, possible need for multiple cycles, moral or ethical concerns, and need to repeat ART each time pregnancy is desired.  What should I consider when deciding on vasectomy reversal vs. ART? Individual priorities will ultimately determine which procedure you choose.  In general, vasectomy reversal tends to be one of the least expensive options for achieving a pregnancy following vasectomy. You might opt for vasectomy reversal because of moral or religious preferences, financial limitations, the desire for more than one child or the desire to avoid ovulation stimulatory medications.  ART may be a better option if your partner is older (particularly older than 37 to 40 years of age), it's been several years since your vasectomy (more than15 years), you only want one child and you want to have chromosomal testing.  Costs for ART are generally higher. While costs vary significantly throughout the U.S., the current estimated costs are approximately $15,000 for the first cycle and $5,000 for subsequent cycles at Mayo Clinic's campus in Rochester, Minnesota. Often more than one cycle is required to achieve a successful pregnancy.  In addition, procedures to retrieve and store sperm from the testicle may cost an additional $2,500 to $4,000 plus $275 to $500 a year to store the frozen sperm. Success rates with each cycle depend on several factors, including the quality of sperm and age and health of the mother.  For more information on which approach might be right for you, please email VasectomyReversal@mayo.edu and request a questionnaire.  By Mayo Clinic Staff    Vasectomy reversal care at Mayo Clinic   Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic  Care at Mayo Clinic  Dec. 30, 2017    Share on: Facebook Twitter    References  Dickey RM, et al. The evolution of vasectomy reversal. Current Urology Reports. 2015;16:40.  What is vasectomy reversal? Urology Care Foundation. http://www.urologyhealth.org/urologic-conditions/vasectomy-reversal. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Wein AJ, et al., eds. Surgical management of male infertility. In: Campbell-Walsh Urology. 10th ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: Saunders Elsevier; 2012. http://www.clinicalkey.com. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Rayala BZ, et al. Common questions about vasectomy. American Family Physician. 2013;88:757.  Wespes E. Vasectomy in male contraception and its reversal. European Urology Supplements. 2014;13:68.  Smith JA, et al. Vasovasostomy and vasoepididymostomy. In: Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: Saunders Elsevier; 2012. http://www.clinicalkey.com. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Ongaro TJ. Overview of vasectomy. http://www.uptodate.com/home. Accessed Nov. 20, 2015.  Barbara Woodward Lips Patient Education Center. Vasectomy reversal. Rochester, Minn.: Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; 2012.  Trost LW (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Dec. 5, 2015.  Castle EP (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ. Dec. 6, 2015.     Related Vasovasostomy Epididymovasostomy Infertility — Not just a female condition Vasectomy       Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been recognized as one of the top Urology hospitals in the nation for 2017-2018 by U.S. News & World Report.  Learn more about this top honor      Vasectomy reversal About Care at Mayo Clinic      Advertisement     Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.  Advertising & Sponsorship   Policy  Opportunities  Ad Choices      Mayo Clinic Marketplace  Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.  FREE TRIAL – Mayo Clinic Health Letter Stop Osteoporosis in Its Tracks Improve Your Hearing and Balance Best Treatment Strategies for Arthritis The Mayo Clinic Diet Online            PRC-20154756    Patient Care & Health Information  Tests & Procedures  Vasectomy reversal               Request Appointment Contact Us About Mayo Clinic Employees Find a Job Site Map About This Site    Twitter Facebook Google YouTube Pinterest    Mayo Clinic is a not-for-profit organization. Make a donation.     Patient Care & Health Info Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases & Conditions A-Z Tests & Procedures A-Z Drugs & Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Patient Online Services Departments & Centers Doctors & Medical Staff Medical Departments & Centers Research Centers & Programs About Mayo Clinic Contact Us Research Explore Research Labs Find Clinical Trials Research Faculty Postdoctoral Fellowships Discovery's Edge Magazine Search Publications Training Grant Positions Education Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Alumni Center For Medical Professionals Provider Relations Online Services for Referring Physicians Video Center Publications Continuing Medical Education Mayo Medical Laboratories Products & Services Healthy Living Program Sports Medicine Books and more ... Mayo Clinic Health Letter Medical Products Population Health and Wellness Programs Medical Laboratory Services Mayo Clinic Voice Apps      Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below. Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Reprint Permissions A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.  This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.     © 1998-2018 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.                  Rate Us   888-684-7036  Menu            中文  Call Today: 888-684-7036           Schedule a consultation   Located in Los Angeles but serving the world          About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance       Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information       Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs       Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele       Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal       Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials       Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews       Blog      Contact   Out of Town Patients              FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal            Dr. Philip Werthman has performed more than 8,000 successful Vasectomy Reversals.   Is it really possible to reverse a vasectomy?  Vasectomy reversal is not only possible but is highly successful when performed by an experienced male infertility micro-surgeon. Unfortunately, other doctors without these special skills will often attempt to perform the surgery themselves, rather than referring the patient to a male infertility specialist. To have your best chance for success, you should see a specialist.    As a patient, you will need to make sure that your doctor performs the procedure regularly and successfully. A good idea is to ask to speak with some of his patients that have already undergone the procedure.  Studies have shown that the outcome of surgery is so dependent on the surgical technique and the surgeon who performs it that it is well worth making the extra effort in going to a specialized center. Although failed vasectomy reversals can be repaired, the first attempt at reversal is the easiest, most cost effective and affords the best opportunity for success.   What is the success rate for vasectomy reversals?  The results of vasectomy reversal are reported as two percentages. The first is patency rate, or the percentage of men who have sperm restored to the ejaculate after reversal. This means that the operation was technically successful, and is commonly known as the vasectomy reversal success rate.  The second statistic reported is the pregnancy rate. The pregnancy rate is always lower than the patency rate because many more factors play a role in getting pregnant beyond the return of sperm in the ejaculate.  The results of microsurgical vasovasostomy from the Vasovasostomy Study Group data are greater than 90% patency if sperm were present in the vasal fluid at the time of surgery, and pregnancy rates up to 76%.  This is the study quoted by most surgeons when asked about results of vasectomy reversal.  Dr. Werthman’s personal results to date are an over 98% patency rate (sperm restored to the ejaculate) if sperm were present in the vasal fluid at surgery. This data is from the last 1000 vasectomy reversals performed by Dr. Werthman.   Don’t you need to check to see if I am still making sperm after my vasectomy?  Men continue to make sperm regardless of how long it has been since the vasectomy unless other factors come into play. Some of those include injury to the testicles, exposure to chemicals or toxins, and certain serious medical problems. Barring any of these situations, no investigation need be undertaken prior to a reversal to assess sperm production.  Some older physicians are still performing testicular biopsies prior to vasectomy reversal. This is no longer recommended or necessary.   It has been a long time since my vasectomy; can I still get it reversed?  It is definitely true that the closer you are to the time of your vasectomy, the easier it will be for us to reverse it. However, in the hands of a skilled micro-surgical specialist who is experienced in vasectomy reversal, even men who have waited 15 years and longer since their vasectomy can enjoy a complete reversal and fatherhood.  The latest study to look at success rates of vasectomy reversal performed 15 years or more after vasectomy (published in Fertility and Sterility, March 2002) shows that the pregnancy rates for intervals 15-19 years, 20-25 years and greater than 25 years are 49%, 39%, and 25% respectively.  The Los Angeles Times Health Section recently ran an article on the increased success of vasectomy reversal for vasectomies more than 15 years old.  Dr. Werthman has helped a man father a child 57 years after his vasectomy, the oldest on record.   My urologist did a vasectomy reversal, but it hasn't worked. Can it be re-done successfully?  Because a vasectomy reversal has failed does not mean all hope is lost. Re-doing the surgery using meticulous and proper technique can produce success in more than 80% of cases.  At the Center for Male Reproductive Medicine, we specialize in re-do vasectomy reversals. 10% of the reversals we perform are re-operations on patients who had failed surgery elsewhere. Dr. Werthman currently performs two to four vasectomy reversals per week.  More than half of our patients travel from outside the Los Angeles area for treatment, so we are fully prepared to help with all the information you require, as well as with accommodations.  Typically, patients stay in Los Angeles for 2-3 days. Dr. Werthman will perform the initial evaluation a day prior to the procedure, and you will be ready to return home one day after the procedure.  We offer patients all the possible options to get pregnant, as well as combinations of treatments. That way, you can choose what is best for you, not what we might want you to do because of our own limitations.   Won’t sperm anti-bodies keep my wife from getting pregnant, even after a vasectomy reversal?  It is actually unlikely that this would be an issue for you. Most patients do not have antibodies present on their sperm after a vasectomy reversal, and most couples don’t have a problem getting pregnant after vasectomy reversal because of antibodies.  Antibodies are small molecules that the body produces to fight off infections and other substances that the body thinks don’t belong. The antibodies stick to the invader and help destroy it.  Sperm are made in the testicle and shielded from the immune system such that in the normal situation the body doesn’t even know they are there. When a man has a vasectomy, the vas is cut and the sperm may leak out. This could allow the body to “see” sperm for the first time. The body’s natural reaction is to produce antibodies to try and kill the sperm.  If we measured the blood of men who underwent vasectomy then we could detect antibodies to proteins located on sperm in the blood of 70% of these men. While this number seems very high, it is somewhat meaningless. The reason is that only antibodies measured on the sperm themselves, not in the blood may play a role in hindering pregnancy.  A recent study published in the medical journal Urology showed that it was actually a partial blockage of the vas after the reversal that was responsible for poor sperm quality, and not anti-sperm antibodies. When the reversal was fixed, the patients got pregnant in most cases. So, while antibodies can cause problems for some patients, they are clearly not responsible for most cases of post-vasectomy reversal infertility.   My wife is over 37, is there really any point in getting my vasectomy reversed?  Yes, there is. While a woman’s fertility does start to decline when she is in her thirties, many women can still conceive into their forties. The pregnancy rates for women ages 36-40 and greater than 40 years old whose husbands underwent vasectomy reversal are 32% and 28% respectively. (Fertility and Sterility, March 2002)  The pregnancy rates for any fertility enhancing procedure are related to the female partner’s age. While in-vitro fertilization does give the opportunity for the quickest way to conceive in a given cycle, the success rates per cycle for women over 37 decrease dramatically to less than ten percent for women over 41.  The oldest woman to conceive whose husband we treated with vasectomy reversal was 47 and the oldest women to deliver a baby was 44 at the time when the reversal was performed.   With ICSI (IntraCytoplasmic sperm injection) only a handful of sperm are needed, why should I have a vasectomy reversal?  Both vasectomy reversal and ICSI/sperm aspiration are good alternatives to father a child after vasectomy. They each have advantages and drawbacks.  In most situations, vasectomy reversal offers the greatest chance for pregnancy. It requires one procedure to be performed only on the man and couples can then try to get pregnant every month the old fashioned way using “IBF” or what we call “in-bed fertilization.”  ICSI on the other hand requires that both partners undergo a procedure. The woman is stimulated with fertility drugs to treat what is really a “male problem.”  The costs of establishing a pregnancy are three times greater with ICSI than with vasectomy reversal. It is even less expensive to have a vasectomy reversal and a repeat vasectomy (if desired) than to have ICSI.  The advantage of ICSI is the possibility for some couples to establish a pregnancy quicker than with vasectomy reversal.  We recommend ICSI/sperm harvesting in those situations where vasectomy reversal would be difficult or impossible, the female partner is of advanced reproductive age, or when there is also a female factor contributing to the infertility.  Each couples’ circumstances are unique and need to be addressed on an individual basis. Our goal is to assist couples in having a child of their own, regardless of the path they choose.     Schedule Your Consultation Today  Schedule a private consultation with male fertility doctor Dr. Phillip Werthman to learn about your male reproduction options and get all of your questions answered.  Call us at 888-684-7036  or click here to schedule an appointment online »          About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance     Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   Vasoepididymostomy  Vasovasostomy    IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information     Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Sperm Aspiration  MESA  Micro-TESE  Varicocele Repair  Hormone Treatment    Male Infertility FAQs     Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele     Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Conventional vs. No-Scalpel Vasectomy  Vasectomy vs. Tubal Ligation  Vasectomy FAQs  Vasectomy Patient Information    Vasectomy Reversal     Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials     Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews     Blog    Contact   Out of Town Patients        Patient Education Center  View our extended patient education center.    Articles »    Videos »               About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance       Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information       Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs       Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele       Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal       Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials       Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews       Blog      Contact   Out of Town Patients          Center for Male Reproductive Medicine  & Vasectomy Reversal  Office of Dr. Werthman    Phone  888-684-7036   Los Angeles Office Hours:  Mon-Thu 9AM-5PM Friday 9AM-3PM    Los Angeles Office Medical Office Building 2080 Century Park East, Suite 907 Los Angeles, CA 90067  Santa Barbara Office 5333 Hollister Ave, Suite 275 Santa Barbara, CA 93105   4.5 Stars From 13 Reviews            © 2018 Center for Male Reproductive Medicine All Rights Reserved.  Design & Development Studio III          Loading...   Rate Us!  Please take a moment to rate your experience with our team.            Yelp  Google  Facebook    Let us know what we can do to improve by filling out the contact form.                        Contact Us Today    Home   About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance     Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information     Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs     Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele     Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal     Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials     Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews     Blog   Patient Education   Contact   Out of Town Patients       Center for Male Reproductive Medicine  888-684-7036             Vasectomy reversal   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search     Vasectomy reversal     [ edit on Wikidata ]     Vasectomy reversal is a term used for surgical procedures that reconnect the male reproductive tract after interruption by a vasectomy . Two procedures are possible at the time of vasectomy reversal: vasovasostomy (vas deferens to vas deferens connection) and vasoepididymostomy (epididymis to vas deferens connection). Although vasectomy is considered a permanent form of contraception, advances in microsurgery have improved the success of vasectomy reversal procedures. The procedures remain technically demanding and expensive, and may not restore the pre-vasectomy condition.     Contents    1  Procedure   1.1  Preparation  1.2  Assessing biology  1.3  Vasovasostomy  1.4  Vasoepididymostomy    2  Success Rates   2.1  Success rates: patency  2.2  Success rates: pregnancy    3  Failure and complications   3.1  Failure  3.2  Complications    4  Alternatives: assisted reproduction  5  Alternatives: how to choose  6  Patient expectations  7  Biological considerations  8  Prevalence  9  History  10  References  11  External links     Procedure [ edit ]  Preparation [ edit ]  A general or regional anesthetic is most commonly used, as this offers the least interruption by patient movement for microsurgery. Local anesthesia , with or without sedation , can also be used. The procedure is generally done on a “come and go” basis. The actual operating time can range from 1–4 hours, depending on the anatomical complexity, skill of the surgeon and the kind of procedure performed.  Assessing biology [ edit ]  After anesthesia and scrubbing the scrotum with soap and water, the vas deferens is exposed through a small, 1–2 cm incision in the upper scrotum on each side. The vas deferens is cut sharply in half, both above and below the vasectomy site. A special bipolar microcautery is used to judiciously control any bleeding. One end of the vas deferens, termed the abdominal end, is inspected and flushed with salt solution to ensure that it is not blocked as it courses from the scrotum to the prostate (a “saline vasogram”). In order to assess for the presence of possible obstruction above the vasectomy site the testicular end of the vas deferens can be compressed and inspected for fluid. This fluid is examined with a microscope for color, consistency and for sperm. This information is used by some surgeons to decide whether or not a secondary epididymal obstruction is present (see Table below).      Grade  Vasal Fluid Findings  Procedure Suggested    1  Normal appearing sperm with motility  Vasovasostomy    2  Mostly normal appearing, nonmotile  Vasovasostomy    3  Mostly sperm heads without tails, nonmotile  Vasovasostomy    4  Only sperm heads  Vasovasostomy    5  No sperm, creamy fluid  Vasoepididymostomy    6  No fluid  Vasoepididymostomy    7  Clear fluid, no sperm  It depends      If sperm are found at the testicular end of the vas deferens, then it is assumed that a secondary epididymal obstruction has not occurred and a vas deferens-to-vas deferens reconnection ( vasovasostomy ) is planned. If sperm are not found, then some surgeon consider this to be prime facie evidence that an epididymal obstruction is present and that an epididymis to vas deferens connection (vasoepididymostomy) should be considered to restore sperm flow. Other, more subtle findings that can be observed in the fluid—including the presence of sperm fragments and clear, good quality fluid without any sperm—require surgical decision-making to successfully treat. There are however, no large randomised prospective controlled trials comparing patency or pregnancy rates following the decision to perform either microsurgical vasovasostomy to microsurgical vasoepididymosty as determined by this paradigm.  Vasovasostomy [ edit ]  Main article: Vasovasostomy  For a vasovasostomy , two microsurgical approaches are most commonly used. Neither has proven superior to the other. [1] What has been shown to be important, however, is that the surgeon use optical magnification to perform the vasectomy reversal. One approach is the modified 1-layer vasovasostomy and the other is a formal, 2-layer vasovasostomy.  Vasoepididymostomy [ edit ]  Main article: Vasoepididymostomy  A vasoepididymostomy involves a connection of the vas deferens to the epididymis . This is necessary when there is no sperm present in the vas deferens.  Success Rates [ edit ]  Success rates: patency [ edit ]  With vasectomy reversal surgery, there are two typical measures of success: patency rate, or return of some moving sperm to the ejaculate after vasectomy reversal, and pregnancy rates. In a recently published report [2] 95% of men with a vasovasostomy had motile sperm in the ejaculate within 1 year after vasectomy reversal. Almost 80% of these men achieved sperm motility within 3 months of vasectomy reversal. The case for vasoepididymostomy is different. Fewer men will eventually achieve motile sperm counts and the time to achieve motile sperm counts is longer.  Additional information:   The age of the patient at the time of vasectomy reversal does not appear to matter. Using different age cut-offs, including <35, 36-45, and > 45 years old, no differences in patency rates were detected in a recent vasectomy reversal series. [2]  The patency rates after vasovasostomy appear equivalent when performed in the straight or convoluted segments of the vas deferens [3]   Another issue to consider is the likelihood of vasoepididymostomy at the time of vasectomy reversal, as this technique is generally associated with lower patency and pregnancy rates than vasovasostomy. Web-based, computer models and calculations have been proposed and published that described the chance of needing an vasoepididymostomy at reversal surgery. [4]  Success rates: pregnancy [ edit ]  The pregnancy rate is often seen as a more reliable way of measuring the success of a vasectomy reversal than the patency rates, as they measure the real-life success of whether the man succeeds in the aim of having a new child.  It is important to appreciate that female age is the single most powerful factor determining the pregnancy rate following any fertility treatment and vasectomy reversal is no exception. No large studies have stratified the results of vasectomy reversal by female age and hence assessing outcomes is confounded by this issue.  Pregnancy rates range widely in published series, with a large study in 1991 observing the best outcome of 76% pregnancy success rate with vasectomy reversals performed within 3 years or less of the original vasectomy, dropping to 53% for reversals 3–8 years out from the vasectomy, 44% for reversals 9–14 years out from the vasectomy, and 30% for reversals 15 or more years after the vasectomy. [5] BPAS cites the average pregnancy success rate of a vasectomy reversal is around 55% if performed within 10 years, and drops to 25% if performed over 10 years. [6] Higher success rates are found with reversal of vasovasostomy than those with a vasoepididymostomy, and factors such as antisperm antibodies and epididymal dysfunction are also implicated in success rates. [7]  Failure and complications [ edit ]  Failure [ edit ]  The current measure of success in vasectomy reversal surgery is achievement of a pregnancy. There are several reasons why a vasectomy reversal may fail to achieve this:   A pregnancy involves two partners. Although the count and quality of sperm may be sufficiently high after vasectomy reversal surgery, female fertility factors may play an indirect role in pregnancy success. If the female partner’s age is >35 years old, the couple should consider a female factor evaluation to determine if they have adequate reproductive potential before a vasectomy reversal is undertaken. This evaluation can be done by a gynecologist and should include a cycle day 3 FSH and estradiol levels, an assessment of menstrual cycle regularity, and a hysterosalpingogram to evaluate for fibroids .  Approximately 50%-80% of men who have had vasectomies develop a reaction against their own sperm (i.e., antisperm antibodies ). [8] High levels of these proteins directed against sperm may impair fertility, either by making it hard for sperm to swim to the egg or by interrupting the way the sperm must interact with the egg. Sperm-bound antibodies are usually assessed >6 months after the vasectomy reversal if no pregnancy has ensued. Treatment options include steroid treatment, intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF) techniques. [9]  Occasionally, scar tissue develops at the site where the vas deferens is reconnected, causing a blockage. Depending on the physician, this occurs in 5-10% of vasovasostomies [10] and up to 35% of vasoepididymostomies. [11] Depending on when it occurs, it may be treated with anti-inflammatory medication or could necessitate repeat vasectomy reversal surgery.  If an epididymal blowout has occurred and is not discovered at the time of vasectomy reversal surgery, the vasectomy reversal will probably fail. In this case, a vasoepididymostomy would need to be performed.  When the vas deferens has been blocked for a long time, the epididymis is adversely affected by elevated pressure. As sperm are nurtured to maturity within the normal epididymis, sperm counts may be sufficiently high to achieve a pregnancy, but sperm movement may be poor. Antioxidants , vitamins (A, C and E), or other supplements are recommended by some centers after vasectomy reversal for this reason. [12] Some patients gradually recover from this epididymal dysfunction. Those patients whose sperm continue to have problems may require IVF to achieve a pregnancy.   Complications [ edit ]  In general, vasectomy reversal is a safe procedure and complication rates are low. There are small chances of infection or bleeding, the latter of which can result in a hematoma or blood clot in the scrotum that needs surgical drainage. If there is significant scar tissue encountered during the vasectomy reversal, fluid other than blood ( seroma ) can also accumulate in a small number of cases. Painful granulomas , caused by leaking sperm, can develop near the surgical site in some cases. Very rare complications include compartment syndrome or deep venous thrombosis from prolonged positioning, testis atrophy due to damaged blood supply, and reactions to anesthesia .  Alternatives: assisted reproduction [ edit ]  Assisted reproduction uses “ test tube baby ” technology (also called in vitro fertilization , IVF) for the female partner along with sperm retrieval techniques for the male partner to help build a family. This technology, including intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), has been available since 1992 and became available as an alternative to vasectomy reversal soon after. This alternative should be discussed with couples during a consultation for vasectomy reversal.  Procedure to extract sperm for IVF include percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration (PESA procedure). testicular sperm extraction (TESE procedure) and open testicular biopsy. Needle aspiration a PESA procedure invariably causes trauma to the epididymal tubule and TESE procedures may damage the intra testicular collecting system (rete testis). Both potentially compromise the prospect of successful vasectomy reversal. Conversely, because in most circumstances vasectomy reversal leads to the restoration of sperm in the semen it reduces the need for sperm retrieval procedures in association with IVF.  Published research attempts to identify the issues that matter most as couples decide between IVF-ICSI and vasectomy reversal, two very different approaches to family building. This research has generally taken the form of cost-effectiveness or cost-benefit analyses [13] and decision analyses [14] and Markov modeling. [15] Since it is difficult to perform randomized, blinded prospective trials on couples in this situation, analytic modeling can help uncover what variables affect outcomes the most. From this body of work, it has been observed that vasectomy reversal can be the most cost-effective way to build a family if: (a) the female partner is reproductively healthy, and (b) the surgeon can achieve good vasectomy reversal outcomes. If the surgeon can achieve high “patency” rates (moving sperm in the ejaculate) after vasectomy reversal, then vasectomy reversal is competitive with IVF-ICSI. [14] In the special instance of couples with advanced maternal age (defined as a female partner > 38 years old), case series’ have reported that pregnancy rates with vasectomy reversal are competitive with IVF-ICSI. [16] When Markov modeling was applied to probe the issue of pregnancy rates after reversal surgery in more depth, the results revealed that female reproductive health is far more important than: (a) the age of the vasectomy, (b) the age of the man, or (c) the vasectomy reversal patency rate. Ultimately the decision to pursue a vasectomy reversal is a personal one for each couple.  Alternatives: how to choose [ edit ]        This article contains content that is written like an advertisement . Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links , and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view .  (September 2017)  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message )           This article contains instructions, advice, or how-to content . The purpose of Wikipedia is to present facts, not to train. Please help improve this article either by rewriting the how-to content or by moving it to Wikiversity , Wikibooks or Wikivoyage .  (September 2017)     Sometimes it is not clear to couples who want children whether they should do a vasectomy reversal or pursue assisted reproduction . There are several questions for couples to ask themselves.   How long ago was the vasectomy performed? An older vasectomy, especially those more than 20–25 years, may make vasectomy reversal less likely to work. [5]  How many children do we want? Sperm retrieval and IVF-ICSI may be a better fit for the couple who wants only one child, as it generally results in both fresh embryos and frozen embryos that can make conceiving one child very reasonable. However, if not pregnancy does not result from IVF the necessary sperm retrieval procedures may compromise the results of subsequent vasectomy reversal.  Are we comfortable with dealing with birth control issues again? Birth control may be required again after vasectomy reversal.  How long are we willing to wait for a child? The average time to pregnancy after vasectomy reversal ranges from 9–14 months. [5]  What will each approach cost us? Most insurance companies do not cover the cost of vasectomy reversal. However, sometimes insurance companies cover the cost (partially or fully) for IVF-ICSI.  Are we comfortable with assisted reproductive technology?  How do we feel about children conceived with the help of technology?   Patient expectations [ edit ]  Every patient who is considering vasectomy reversal should undergo a screening visit before the procedure to learn as much as possible about his current fertility potential. At this visit, the patient can decide whether he is a good candidate for vasectomy reversal and assess if it is right for him. Issues to be discussed at this visit include:     Female partner’s history of past pregnancies  Male’s medical and surgical history  Complications during or after the vasectomy  Female partner’s age, menstrual cycle and fertility  Brief physical examination to assess male reproductive tract anatomy  A review of the vasectomy reversal procedure, its nature, benefits and risks, and complications  Alternatives to vasectomy reversal  Freezing of sperm at the time of vasectomy reversal  Questions about the surgery, the success rates, and recovery  Analysis of hormones such as testosterone or FSH in selected cases to better determine whether sperm production is normal     Immediately before the procedure, the following information is important for patients:     They should eat normally the night before the vasectomy reversal, but follow the directions that anesthesia recommends for the morning of the reversal. If no specific directions are given, all food and drink should be withheld after midnight and on the morning of the surgery.  Stop taking aspirin, or any medications containing ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Aleve), at least 10 days prior to vasectomy reversal, as these medications have a side effect that can reduce platelet function and therefore lower blood clotting ability.  Be prepared to be driven home or to a hotel after the vasectomy reversal     After the procedure, patients should perform the following tasks:     Remove dressings from inside the athletic supporter in 48 hours; continue with the scrotal support for 1 week. Shower once the dressings are removed.  Wear athletic supporter at all times for the first 4 weeks.  Apply frequent ice packs (or frozen peas, any brand) to the scrotum the evening after the vasectomy reversal and the day after that for 24 hours to reduce swelling.  Take prescribed pain medication as directed.  Resume a normal, well-balanced diet upon returning home or to the hotel. Drinks lots of fluids.  Normal, non-vigorous activity can be restarted after 48 hours or when feeling better. Activities that cause discomfort should be stopped for the time being. Heavy activities such as jogging and weight lifting can be resumed in 2 to 4 weeks depending on the particular procedure.  Refrain from sexual intercourse for 4 weeks depending on the procedure and the surgeon’s recommendations.  The semen is checked for sperm at between 6 and 12 weeks post-operatively and then depending on the results may be requested monthly semen analyses are then obtained for about 6 months or until the semen quality stabilizes.  You may experience discomfort after the vasectomy reversal. Symptoms that may not require a doctor's attention are: (a) light bruising and discoloration of the scrotal skin and base of penis. This will take one week to go away. b) limited scrotal swelling (a grapefruit is too large); (c) small amounts of thin, clear, pinkish fluid may drain from the incision for a few days after reversal surgery. Keep the area clean and dry and it will stop.  If you received general anesthesia, a sore throat, nausea, constipation, and general "body ache" may occur. These problems should resolve within 48 hours.  Consider calling a provider for the following issues: (a) wound infection as suggested by a fever, a warm, swollen, red and painful incision area, with pus draining from the site. Antibiotics are necessary to treat this. (b) scrotal hematoma as suggested by extreme discoloration (black and blue) of the skin and continuing scrotal enlargement from bleeding underneath. This can cause throbbing pain and a bulging of the wound. If the scrotum continues to hurt more and continues to enlarge after 72 hours, then it may need to be drained.     Biological considerations [ edit ]  Sperm are produced in the male sex gland or testicle . From there they travel through tubes (efferent tubules), exit the testes and enter a “storage site” or epididymis . The epididymis is a single, 18-foot-long (5.5 m), tightly coiled, small tube, within which sperm mature to the point where they can move, swim and fertilize eggs. Testicular sperm are not able to fertilize eggs naturally (but can if they are injected directly into the egg in the laboratory), as the ability to fertilize eggs is developed slowly over several months of storage in the epididymis. From the epididymis, a 14-inch, 3 mm-thick muscular tube called the vas deferens carries the sperm to the urethra near the base of the penis. The urethra then carries the sperm through the penis during ejaculation . A vasectomy interrupts sperm flow within the vas deferens. After a vasectomy, the testes still make sperm, but because the exit is blocked, the sperm die and eventually are reabsorbed by the body.  A problem in the delicate tubes of epididymis can develop over time after vasectomy. [5] The longer the time since the vasectomy, the greater the “back-pressure” behind the vasectomy. This “back-pressure” may cause a “blowout” in the delicate epididymal tubule, the weakest point in the system. The blowout may or may not cause symptoms, but will probably scar the epididymal tubule, thus blocking sperm flow at second point. To summarize, with time, a man with a vasectomy can develop a second obstruction deeper in the reproductive tract that can make the vasectomy more difficult to reverse. Having the skill to detect and fix this problem during vasectomy reversal is the essence of a skilled surgeon. If the surgeon simply reconnects the two freshened ends of the vas deferens without examining for a second, deeper obstruction, then the procedure can fail, as sperm-containing fluids are still unable to flow to the place of the connection. In this case, the vas deferens must be connected to the epididymis in front of the second blockage, to bypass both blockages and allow the sperm to reenter the urethra in the ejaculate . Since the epididymal tubule is much smaller (0.3 mm diameter) than the vas deferens (3 mm diameter, 10-fold larger), epididymal surgery is far more complicated and precise than the simple vas deferens-to-vas deferens connection.  Prevalence [ edit ]  Vasectomy is a common method of contraception worldwide, with an estimated 40-60 million individuals having the procedure and 5-10% of couples choosing it as a birth control method. [17] In the USA, about 5% of men later go on to have a vasectomy reversal afterwards. [15] However the number of men inquiring about vasectomy reversals is significantly higher, with many "put off" by the high costs of the procedure and pregnancy success rates (as opposed to "patency rates") only being around 55%. [18]  While there are a number of reasons that men seek a vasectomy reversal, some of these include wanting a family with a new partner following a relationship breakdown / divorce, their original wife/partner dying and subsequently going on re-partner and to want children, the unexpected death of a child (or children - such as by car accident), or a long-standing couple changing their mind some time later often by situations such as improved finances or existing children approaching the age of school or leaving home. [19] Patients often comment that they never anticipated such situations as a relationship breakdown or death (of their partner or child) may affect their situation. A small number of vasectomy reversals are also performed in attempts to relieve post-vasectomy pain syndrome .  In the UK, 16% of all men under 70 have had a vasectomy, and with remarriages accounting for 40% of all marriages, there are a significant proportion of men finding themselves in a new relationship and regretting their decision to have a vasectomy. [19] Combined with longer life histories, the rate of divorce and remarriage is thought to be driving the increase in vasectomy reversals and inquiries for vasectomy reversals in recent times. [19]  History [ edit ]  Technical advances in vasectomy reversal mirror those in microsurgery over the past 100 years. As a discipline, microsurgery was first performed by Carl Nylen in Sweden for middle ear surgery in 1910, [20] but grew most rapidly as a discipline in the 20th century stimulated by its success in microvascular reconstruction of war-injured soldiers. The first microsurgical vasectomy reversal was performed by Earl Owen in 1971. [21]  References [ edit ]     ^  Lee H.Y. a 20-year experience with vasovasostomy. J. Urol. 136: 413, 1986, PMID  3525857  ^ a  b  Yang et al. The kinetics of the return of sperm to the ejaculate after the vasectomy reversal. J. Urol. 177: 2271, 2007, PMID  17509339  ^  Patel SR, Sigman M. Comparison of outcomes of vasovasostomy performed in the convoluted and straight vas deferens. J. Urol. 179: 256, 2008, PMID  18001786  ^  Parekatill SJ et al. Multi-institution validation of vasectomy reversal predictor. J. Urol. 175: 24, 2006, PMID  16406922  ^ a  b  c  d  Belker AM et al. Results of 1,469 microsurgical vasectomy reversals by the Vasovasostomy Study Group. J. Urol. 145: 505, 1991, PMID  1997700  ^  Bastuba, Martin. "Vasectomy Reversal Success Rates" . MaleFertility.md . Retrieved 16 September 2015 .   ^  Schwarzer, JU "Vasectomy Reversal using a micro-surgical three layer technique: one surgeon's experience over 18 years with 1300 patients" in International Journal of Andrology April 20, 2012  ^  Ansbacher, R. Humoral sperm antibodies: a 10-year follow-up of vas-ligated men. Fertil Steril 36: 222, 1981, PMID  7262338  ^  Turek PJ. Immunopathology and Infertility. In: Infertility in the Male, 3rd ed. Edited by LI Lipshultz and SS Howards. Mosby Year Book, Philadelphia, 1997.  ^  Eisenberg ML et al. Use of viscoelastic solution to improve visualization during urologic microsurgery: evaluation of patency after vasovasostomy. Urol. 73: 134, 2009, PMID  18977020  ^  Schiff J et al. Outcome and late failures compared in 4 techniques of vasoepididymostomy in 153 consecutive men. J. Urol. 174: 651, 2005, PMID  16006931  ^  Kolettis PN et al. Effect of seminal oxidative stress on fertility after vasectomy reversal. Fertil Steril. 71: 249, 1999, PMID  9988393  ^  Pavlovich CP et al. Fertility options after vasectomy: A cost effectiveness analysis. Fertil Steril. 67: 133, 1997, PMID  8986698  ^ a  b  Meng MV et al. Surgery or assisted reproduction? A decision analysis of treatment costs in male infertility. J. Urol. 174: 1926, 2005, PMID  16217347  ^ a  b  Hsieh MH et al. Markov modeling of vasectomy reversal and ART: How do obstructive interval and female partner age influence cost-effectiveness? Fertil Steril. 88: 840, 2007, PMID  17544418  ^  Gerrard ER et al. Effect of female partner age on pregnancy rates after vasectomy reversal. Fertil Steril. 87: 1340, 2007, PMID  17258213  ^  Griffen et al. How little is enough? The evidence for post vasectomy testing. J. Urol. 174: 29, 2005, PMID  15947571  ^  Laurance, Jeremy (2009) "Vasectomy Reversal: First Cut Isn't Final" in The Independent, March 30, 2009. Viewable on https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/vasectomy-reversal-first-cut-isnt-final-1657039.html  ^ a  b  c  Murphy, Clare "18 March 2009 viewable at: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/7948690.stm  ^  Nylen C.O. Acta Otolaryngologica 73: 453, 1972  ^  Owen E.R. Microsurgery in common cases of male infertility. Int Surg 91 (5 suppl): 85-89, 2006, PMID  17436609      External links [ edit ]   Vasectomy Reversal : Video of microsurgical vasovasostomy          v  t  e    Male genital surgical and other procedures : reproductive system ( ICD-9-CM V3 60–64, ICD-10-PCS 0V )     Internal      Prostate         Transurethral incision of the prostate  Prostate biopsy   Transrectal biopsy  Transurethral biopsy    Prostatectomy   Transurethral resection of the prostate  Radical retropubic prostatectomy    Transurethral microwave thermotherapy  Transurethral needle ablation of the prostate  Brachytherapy   Prostate brachytherapy    Prostate massage       seminal vesicles :     Spermatocelectomy          Vas deferens     Vasectomy  Vasectomy reversal   Vasovasostomy  Vasoepididymostomy         Testes     Orchiectomy   Castration    Orchiopexy          External      Penis         Circumcision  Penectomy  Penile prosthesis  Preputioplasty          Penile plethysmograph  Postage stamp test  Frenuloplasty of prepuce of penis             Tests         Semen analysis       Medical imaging     Transscrotal ultrasound                Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vasectomy_reversal&oldid=834434194 "  Categories : Urologic surgery Male genital surgery Hidden categories: Articles with a promotional tone from September 2017 All articles with a promotional tone Articles needing cleanup from September 2017 All pages needing cleanup Articles containing how-to sections      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages     Add links        This page was last edited on 5 April 2018, at 18:24.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                                                  Vasectomy  Overview | How
            it works | The procedure | Complications | Risks | Effectiveness | Alternatives  What are your birth
            control options? You and your partner are absolutely sure that you do not want to have
          any more children. Sterilization is an available option, offering an
          almost completely safe and reliable form of permanent birth control.
          Because it is safer and less complicated, most physicians recommend
          male rather than female sterilization to couples.  The vasectomy is a simple office procedure
          in which a segment of the tubes carrying the sperm from the testicles
          is removed, and the ends are sealed off. The procedure takes about
          ten minutes and is performed under a local anesthetic. Check to see
          if you can have a scalpeless vasectomy, which uses a technique in which
          an incision is not made. Most men readily admit that the procedure
          is less painful than a visit to the dentist's office. Additionally,
          the only medication necessary afterward for the discomfort is a mild
          anti-inflammatory such as Advil or Tylenol. In order to minimize the
          discomfort and complications, it is important to stay off your feet
          for one to two days after the procedure. Most instances of complications
          from vasectomies occur because of too much activity following the procedure.  Family Planning:
            When Your Reproductive Years Are Behind You Family size is the most difficult decision most couples ever have to
          make. There are so many aspects to consider: the joy children bring
          to the household, the cost of supporting them, your or your spouse's
          career plans, the medical risks of pregnancy and temporary birth control
          methods, and, of course, what your faith tells you.  Temporary birth control methods—condoms, the diaphragm, the pill,
          etc.—let couples time their births and postpone taking more permanent
          measures. But, used long enough, every one of them might just fail.
          For that reason, many couples eventually choose a more-permanent approach—voluntary
          sterilization.  Only you, yours and your maker can decide about sterilization. But
          I can tell you most couples take time—between two and five years—to
          become sure enough to go ahead.  That's good. Though both common forms of sterilization can be surgically
          reversed, reversal is more complicated and expensive than sterilization,
          insurance companies usually won't pay for it and there's no guarantee
          of success. That's why I like to call sterilization "permanent."  Once you're confident that you're ready to put your reproductive years
          behind you, there are two options: vasectomy (male sterilization) or
          tubal ligation (female sterilization). Vasectomy makes you sterile
          by cutting the pipelines (the vas deferens) between the testicles and
          the penis. These small tubes are located just under the surface of
          the scrotal skin, and it takes less than 15 minutes in the doctor's
          office to snip them and seal the ends under a local anesthetic.  Tubal ligation involves cutting and tying a woman's fallopian tubes,
          which are well below muscles and other tissue in the abdomen. It requires
          a general anesthetic and a hospital visit.  A couple of statistics might make the differences even more clear:   Fatalities per 100,000: tubal
              ligation = 3.51; vasectomy = 0  Approximate cost: tubal ligation
              = $2,500; vasectomy = $750 - 850   Vasectomy is simpler, safer, cheaper
          and takes less time to recover from than tubal ligation. Their failure
          rates are just about the same: 1 in 2,000.  Still, most men naturally squirm at the thought of anyone tampering
          with that part of their bodies. If you hear horror stories about vasectomy,
          press for details. I assure you the tale will turn out to be at least
          third-hand and groundless. I've done more than 4,500 vasectomies and
          have never seen a serious complication. The most frequent comment is, "You
          mean it's over already?"  When a man has a vasectomy Friday afternoon and follows instructions—uses
          ice packs, elevates his feet and is inactive for the weekend (no matter
          how good he feels)—he's back to work on Monday barely feeling
          a thing.  It's worth discussing with your doctor what approach he uses and how
          many vasectomies he's done. Technique and experience can make a significant
          difference both in how quickly you're back on your feet and also in
          the likelihood of failure.  Is sex different after vasectomy? Not at all. Because the testicles
          supply less than 5 percent of the ejaculate, there's no noticeable
          difference in the semen. Erections and sex drive are unaffected—though
          freedom from worry of pregnancy often enhances a couple's sex life.  What about long-term health effects? No repeated studies have ever
          documented a hazard to men who have had vasectomies. And recently,
          researchers at Harvard University reported in the New England Journal
          of Medicine results from the largest study ever of vasectomized men.
          They were unable to associate vasectomy with any health problem in
          14,607 vasectomized men.  Don't choose vasectomy lightly. But if you and your spouse decide you're
          ready for permanent birth control, get the facts and consider it carefully.
          (Write the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, 79 Madison
          Avenue, New York, NY 10016, 212-561-8090, for more information. Please
          include a business-size self-addressed, stamped envelope.)  When you understand the choices, I think you'll agree guys, it's the
          least we can do for our women. [ top ]  Overview The vast majority of men who have a vasectomy are delighted by the
            results. But roughly two of every 100 end up regretting the decision.
            Almost without exception, it wasn't the vasectomy's fault. Those
            two simply weren't ready to accept permanent birth control. Usually,
            they're men who have entered a new relationship and have changed
            their mind about fatherhood. (Although vasectomy can sometimes be
            reversed, it should be considered permanent.)  Some of the positive signs that you
          may be ready to have vasectomy include:    You're in a stable, long-term
                marriage of 10 or more years, and both of you agree that you
                do not want more children.  You don't want to or can't use
                temporary methods of birth control.  You or your partner has an inheritable
                disorder that you don't want to risk passing along to a child.  Pregnancy poses a serious health
                risk to your partner.    On the other hand, some of the warning
          signs that vasectomy may not be a good choice include:    You are young.  You have few or no children.  Your relationship with your spouse
                is shaky.  Either you or your partner is
                less than certain about the choice.  You're worried about how it will
                affect your sexuality.  You think there's a chance you
                might want more children if your situation changes (for example,
                a new spouse, death of a child, or improvement in finances).  You think vasectomy reversal
                is a good option if your situation changes.  You're considering "banking" sperm
                just in case.  Your situation requires protection
                against sexually transmitted diseases. (Vasectomy offers no protection
                against STDs.)  You don't understand how vasectomy
                works, how it's done, what the side effects can be and what the
                alternatives are.   How vasectomy
              works Sperm are produced in a man's testes, and they mature in an area
            attached to the testes called the epididymis. It takes about 90 days
            from the time that the sperm are made for them to travel gradually
            up two tubes called the vas deferentia and become available for ejaculation.
            Prior to ejaculation, they're mixed with fluids from the seminal
            vesicles and the prostate to form semen. Vasectomy interrupts this
            process by closing off the vas deferentia, preventing the sperm from
            joining the other fluids. There is no noticeable change in the man's
            semen, because the sperm's contribution to volume is less than 5
            percent.  Vasectomy has no physical effect on a man's virility,
            because it doesn't change the testes' production of the male hormone,
            testosterone. His sex drive, potency, male characteristics, and sexual
            pleasure should be unchanged. (About 30 percent of men report improved
            sexuality after a vasectomy, most likely because the worry of pregnancy
            is eliminated.) After a vasectomy, sperm continue to be produced
            but at a decreased rate. Those that are produced die and are absorbed
            by the body—just as they would be in an unvasectomized man
            who did not ejaculate. [ top ]  How a vasectomy
              is done Vasectomy is a minor surgical procedure done in the doctor's office
            that removes a small section of each vas deferens and seals off the
            ends. Prior to the late 1980s, most vasectomies were done using a
            small scalpel, took about 30 minutes, and required a couple of days
            for full recovery. Around 1988, though, a Chinese technique was introduced
            to the United States. The no-scalpel vasectomy simplifies the procedure,
            reducing the total time to between 8 and 10 minutes. No incision
            is made, so no stitches are required. There is less discomfort during
            and after the procedure, complications such as bleeding are reduced,
            and recovery is quicker.  No scalpel vasectomy is done with a special tool that
            creates minimum disturbance. The prick of the needle for the local
            anesthetic is about the extent of what most men feel. Nearly 8,000
            vasectomies have been performed by Dr. Goldberg and the
            most common comment we hear is, "It's over? That's it?" Most
            men don't even need Tylenol afterward, let alone a prescription pain
            killer. Likewise, the pain isn't too great when the bill comes. Vasectomy
            typically costs $800.  If possible, you should have someone come along to
            drive you home, but we've had men drive a couple of hours both ways
            to have a vasectomy here. Spending a couple of days afterward resting
            and applying an ice pack to your scrotum will greatly speed your
            recovery and reduce the risk of complications. [ top ]  Complications
              from vasectomy Only about 10 percent of men experience any sort of complication
            from a vasectomy, and these are usually minor. There has never been
            a death with a vasectomy. Of course, as is the case with any surgical
            procedure, there's always a small risk for bleeding, infection, or
            allergic reaction to the anesthetic, causing a rash. Complications
            specific to vasectomy include the possibility of a sperm granuloma,
            testicular pain, and epididymitis. Also, in very rare instances,
            a man can lose a testicle.  A sperm granuloma occurs if sperm leak
            from the vasectomy site or a rupture in the epididymis and provoke
            an inflammatory reaction. About a half-inch in diameter, they require
            further attention in only about two percent of men. About one percent
            of men experience aching testicles from congestion in the epididymis.
            This usually disappears within six months. Epididymitis is an inflammation
            at the vasectomy site, usually taking place within the first year.
            Heat and anti-inflammatory medicine usually clear it up in about
            a week.  By far the most common complication
            we see is swelling of the scrotum in guys who refuse to take it easy
            for a couple of days after a vasectomy. Unfortunately, once the swelling
            starts, it may take two weeks for it to reduce completely, so prevention
            is the best approach. [ top ]  What
              are the risks of vasectomy? A study has shown that men who have had a vasectomy have an increased
            incidence of prostate
            cancer after 20 years. Since that report, other studies
            have noted that there is no increased incidence of prostate cancer.
            The Male Health Center is monitoring current developments regarding
            this possibility and will be happy to discuss the risk factors in
            more detail at the time of your consultation.  For at least the first six weeks after the procedure, you will be
            advised to use another form of birth control. Afterward, the man's
            semen is checked to ensure no sperm are present. Total charge for
            a vasectomy is typically less than $900. [ top ]  Long-term risks
              of vasectomy Vasectomy is one of the most studied of all medical procedures, yet
            rumors of long-term risks have persisted almost since the beginning
            of its use in the U.S. in the 1960s. To date, the body of medical
            evidence indicates that it is quite safe. Both the National Institutes
            of Health and the World Health Organization have given it a clean
            bill.  Although risks such as heart disease
            and arthritis were pretty much debunked by the 1980s, vasectomy's
            effect on the risk of prostate cancer continues to be studied. Although
            some studies have suggested a relation between the two, others have
            not. A panel of experts was convened by the National Institutes of
            Health to study the available research, and it concluded that the
            evidence for a link between vasectomy and prostate cancer was inconsistent
            and insufficient. No changes were recommended, including no increased
            screening for prostate cancer among men who have had vasectomies. [ top ]         How effective
              is it? The overall failure rate for vasectomy rate is 0.15 percent, but
            that doesn't give an accurate picture of its real effectiveness.
            Most vasectomy failures happen during the first couple of months
            after the procedure, when live sperm may still present in a man's
            semen. Couples must continue to use another method of birth control
            until the man has ejaculated about 20 times (clearing the sperm)
            over as long as six months and tests (we require two) have shown
            that no live sperm remain. Some men skip the tests and end up regretting
            it. About one of every 4,000 vasectomies fails because the vas deferentia
            manage to reconnect—a failure rate of 0.025 percent. [ top ]  What are the
              alternatives? Up to 40 percent of couples considering permanent birth control have
            experienced a failure with a temporary method—such as condoms,
            a diaphragm, spermicides, IUDs, hormonal implants, and the pill—so
            the obvious alternative to vasectomy is tubal ligation for the woman.
            By comparison, tubal ligation is a more involved surgical procedure,
            costing about $1,500 to $2,500, with a greater rate of complication.
            To put it in perspective, the fatality rate for tubal is 3.51 per
            100,000—compared with zero for vasectomy.  Despite the obvious advantages of vasectomy, more tubal
            ligations (about 600,000) than vasectomies (about 500,000) are performed
            each year. Why? Most likely because women have traditionally taken
            the responsibility for birth control. Vasectomy offers men the opportunity
            to begin to set the record straight. [ top ]  What about female sterilization? Tubal ligation is a procedure in which a woman's fallopian tubes
              are severed or sealed off, which prevents the egg from being fertilized
              by sperm. Unlike vasectomy, which is a simple outpatient procedure,
              tubal ligation typically is more complex and can require a hospital
              stay. Sometimes tubal ligation can be performed at an ambulatory
              surgery center.  In the most common tubal ligation procedure, the woman's
            fallopian tubes are sealed off with tiny metal rings or clips. It
            is necessary that two incisions be made just below the navel. The
            costs for tubal ligation, including surgeon's fees, operating room
            facility, and anesthesiologist's charges, range anywhere from $1,500
            to $2,500. The procedure requires a general or regional anesthetic.
            A recent study showed that there was an 18 percent incidence of reconnection
            after tubal ligation. [ top ]  What if you change
              your mind? We can plan, but we can't predict the future. So a few man who have
            had a vasectomy—about one in 100 — will attempt to reverse
            it. Fortunately, microsurgical techniques developed in recent years
            have greatly improved the likelihood of success. Two types of surgical
            procedures are used to reverse vasectomy. In men who still have sperm
            present in their vas deferentia, vasovasostomy reconnects the vas.
            When no sperm are found (about one-third of all cases), the far ends
            of the vas deferentia can be directly connected to the epididymis,
            using a technique called vasoepididymostomy.  Neither method of reconnection is easy,
            certain of success, or cheap. Although both can often be done at
            an ambulatory surgery center, with the man going home the same day,
            vasovasostomy takes two to three hours, and vasoepididymostomy can
            take five. The cost will be somewhere between $5,000 and $15,000.
            Overall, the rates of pregnancy are about 50 percent and 20 percent
            respectively, but the chances also depend on how recently the man
            had the vasectomy. For vasovasostomy, the chances of pregnancy are
            as high as three-quarters for the first three years, declining to
            about half for years three through eight, and as low as one-third
            after the fifteenth year. Vasectomy reversal actually turns up sperm
            in semen considerably more often than the pregnancy numbers suggest.
            But sperm don't guarantee pregnancy, and pregnancy is the goal.  If reconnection fails, there is yet
            another option for couples who want children. In a new procedure,
            sperm are aspirated directly from a man's testicle and injected into
            an egg removed from the woman. Once fertilization takes place, the
            egg can be implanted in the woman, where normal gestation can take
            place. Needless to say, this is more complicated and expensive than
            reconnection, and the odds of success are lower.  As you can see, a man who wants to
            reverse his vasectomy has pretty good odds of success. But it's still
            not something to count on when considering a vasectomy as a birth
            control option. [ top ]      About
          us | Contact
            us | Referring
              physicians | Topics | Prevention | Male
                Health Quiz | Resources | For
                Women | Home  Copyright © 2017 MedIngenuity, LLC Business Development for Physicians    Need more
                information on male health issues?   Click here for information on diet, nutrition and health resource books. Learn when to see the doctor and what causes symptoms.    Copyright © 2006
              THE MALE HEALTH CENTER, LEWISVILLE, TEXAS                   Our Chesapeake Urology Network Sites    Chesapeake Urology  Chesapeake Aesthetic Surgery  Erectile Dysfunction  Dr. Karen Boyle  Dr. Julio Davalos      Dr. David Fenig  Dr. Brad Lerner  Endourology Fellowship  Men's Personal Health  Urological Consultants      Prostate Cancer Care  Vasectomy Reversal of America  Women's Personal Health  Zero Prostate Cancer Challenge       Return to Chesapeake Urology Our Network                 855.HAVE.A.BABY    Patient Portal Online Bill Pay Resources Contact    Search      About Vasectomy Reversal The procedure What to expect FAQs After surgery SUCCESS RATES Alternative Options About Us Why VRCA Affiliations Physicians Karen Boyle, M.D. David Fenig, M.D. Cost Cost Components Insurance coverage Financing Success Stories Blog                              The Truth About Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy Reversal   Many women become dismayed when almost 12 months have gone by since their partner's vasectomy reversal and they are still not pregnant.  Month after month of negative pregnancy tests can certainly take its toll on any woman's spirit, but when it comes to getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal, it's important to know what's realistic and understand the facts.  What to Expect  First and foremost, following a vasectomy reversal, it takes several months, if not longer, to return to a normal sperm count. When a man has had a vasovasostomy, you can expect to see sperm back in the ejaculate by three months. If we do not see sperm in the ejaculate after three months, then the reversal has not been successful. With an epididymovasostomy, a more complex procedure that is performed at the Vasectomy Reversal Center of America when a blockage in the epididymis is found, it can take six to 12 months to see the presence of sperm in the ejaculate. However, presence of sperm doesn't necessarily mean a normal count. Yes, you want to see sperm present in the ejaculate, but then it has to normalize.  Conceiving is a Process  Getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal is usually a six to 12 month process. It's important to understand that a man turns over his sperm reserve every three to four months. After a vasectomy reversal, it can take a couple of turnovers of sperm reserve, or approximately six to nine months, before sperm count returns to a level where getting pregnant is optimal. At this point, it can still take another six months or so for a couple to conceive.  So while getting pregnant within a few months after the reversal is certainly not unheard of, it's also not the norm.  The most important thing following a vasectomy reversal is to monitor the semen analysis and the sperm for motility. We take a semen analysis at the six to eight week mark and then every one to two months thereafter to ensure the counts have stabilized.  Once the semen analysis shows optimal sperm count and motility,  we typically give couples six months to get pregnant with timed intercourse; that is, monitoring ovulation, having intercourse every other day, four to five days before through about four to five days after ovulation. If a man has a normal sperm count and the couple is having timed intercourse for six months, pregnancy should occur.  If a couple has not conceived within this time, we make sure the sperm counts are still normal and then we will evaluate the female partner for fertility issues.  Getting pregnant after a vasectomy reversal is a process, and it sometimes can be a long process. There are many factors that come into play for couples trying to conceive, from semen quality to a woman's age. Don't become discouraged if you're not pregnant after only a few months following the reversal.  Conception takes time, and good things often come to those who can wait.  Leave your comments - share your experiences about conceiving after a vasectomy reversal here. Or call us at 855-428-3222 with any questions or to schedule a consultation.    Copyright ©2013         Blog Maryland Doctor's Vasectomy Reversal Delivers New Bundle of Joy When a Man Changes His Mind Reversal and sexual function How Age Affects Vasectomy Reversal Helping More Men Celebrate Father's Day Vasectomy Reversal Vs. IVF - When is Vasectomy Reversal the Best Option? Do's and Don'ts After a Vasectomy Reversal Engage With The VRCA On Facebook Things Are Getting Personal Around Here Mini Incision Vs. Microsurgical Vasectomy Reversal Can You Afford to Have a Vasectomy Reversal The Truth About Getting Pregnant After a Vasectomy Reversal Increasing Sperm Count After a Vasectomy Reversal Vasectomy Reversal a Decade after a Vasectomy Yes, it’s possible Women over 40 getting pregnant- how age affects fertility Thinking Through the Vasectomy Reversal Decision Infertility- it's not always about the female How Successful are Vasectomy Reversals 5 Truths About Vasectomy Reversal Top 3 Myths about Vasectomy Reversal to Throw Out the Window                  Josh and Jamie   We are happy to inform you that we conceived 10 WEEKS PAST SURGERY!!!! I'm currently in my 7th week and had an ultrasound last week. ...  Read their stories >                                                                                                       Our Affiliations                    Microsurgical Vasectomy reversal  the procedure  what to expect  AFTER SURGERY  SUCCESS RATES  faq's  ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS   Our Physicians  Karen Boyle, m.d.  David Fenig, m.d.  Brad Lerner, m.d.   Cost  cost components  financing  insurance coverage   about us  why vrca  affiliations   success stories  Patient resources  locations & directions  Forms  visiting baltimore  hipaa privacy policy     *Results vary by individual.   VRCA Blog                VRCA Blog                  Follow Us         The Vasectomy Reversal Center of America is a Division of                     © 2018 Vasectomy Reversal Center of America. All rights reserved.     privacy policy  terms of use  sitemap                           Skip to content     menu      UI Hospitals and Clinics                 MyChart  Pay A Bill  Appointments        Patients & Visitors  Primary & Specialty Care  Health Topics  About Us  Find a Doctor      Search form  Search               You are here Home / Health Topics / Vasectomy Reversals: Frequently Asked Questions        Vasectomy Reversals: Frequently Asked Questions             Vasectomies can be reversed even after very long periods of time, sometimes after more than 25 years. Sperm are constantly being produced in men and even after time, there should be viable sperm. However, the success of the reversal, in terms of achieving a pregnancy, is dependent upon the experience of the surgeon, the age and fertility status of the female partner, and the length of time since the vasectomy.  The surgeon noted that he both cauterized and tied the vas during surgery. Would that reduce the positive outcome of an operation?  No. The outcome of the surgery is more dependent upon what is found at the time of the reversal as well as the experience of the surgeon performing the reversal surgery. During the reversal, the surgeon will check for sperm within the vas. If sperm is present, then the two ends of the vas deferens can be put back together, and the success rate should be fairly high. However, if there is no sperm at the end of the vas, there is likely a blockage closer to the testicle. Then, a more complicated surgery may be performed, but this procedure has a lower success rate.  Is there ever any nerve damage when a vasectomy is performed? If reversed, will the nerves restore themselves?  It is possible but rare that significant pain from nerve damage can occur after a vasectomy. There are some cases where a reversal will help with the pain, but these are rare. A full work-up should be performed before undergoing a vasectomy reversal as the success rate in getting rid of the pain may not be very high.  How is the surgery performed? Does it require general anesthetic and how many hours? How about recovery?  Most vasectomy reversals are performed as an outpatient surgery and can be done under local, regional or general anesthesia. It typically takes approximately 3 to 4 hours using an operating microscope to perform the surgery. Recovery is variable and can take anywhere from 5 to 14 days. We recommend avoiding heavy lifting and sexual intercourse during the first 4 weeks after this surgery.  Does insurance pay for vasectomy reversal?  The cost of the surgery, as well as whether or not it is covered by insurance, is variable, and dependent upon where the surgery is performed and the patient's individual insurance policy.  What is the typical cost?  Cost can range anywhere from approximately $2,000 to $12,000, depending upon the surgeon, the type of practice where it is performed, and what part of the country the patient lives in.  Is there anyone who is automatically NOT a candidate for vasectomy reversal?  There are certainly some patients who are better candidates than others; time from the vasectomy is not necessarily a reason not to have a reversal. However, in the case of a couple where the woman has, for instance, had a tubal ligation, sperm aspiration combined with in-vitro fertilization is probably a better choice than performing vasectomy reversal followed by tubal ligation reversal.  Please explain the probability of any side effects... impotence, urinary incontinence, etc.  Side effects are typically minimal and usually would include swelling, pain or bruising; however, the vasectomy itself and the reversal should not have any effect upon potency or urinary function.  What is the effective rate of reversal?  The success rate varies based on several factors. Time from the vasectomy certainly helps to predict how likely it would be to be able to put the two ends of the vas deferens back together; however, getting return of sperm into the ejaculate does not guarantee pregnancy, so pregnancy rates typically vary from 30 to 70 percent, whereas patency rate, that is the return of sperm, can be as high as 95 percent.  Are there other means of "fertility" that I should consider as options to reversal?  The only other option to a reversal that would allow use of a man's sperm with the woman's egg would be surgical sperm retrieval (through either extraction or aspiration) combined with in-vitro fertilization. The sperm removed from the testicle can be injected directly into the eggs that have been retrieved from the woman after she has been stimulated with hormone injections.  This is a very effective but expensive treatment with relatively good success rates. However, it is not possible to remove enough sperm from the man's testicle to inseminate the woman.  If antibodies from your immune system are present, why does this affect pregnancy rates?  There is some debate about the effects of antibodies on pregnancy rates after vasectomy reversal. Approximately 70 to 80 percent of men who have had vasectomies will have antibodies to their sperm. However, these antibodies rarely prevent the sperm from fertilizing the egg. Therefore, we counsel patients that it is unnecessary to routinely test for antibodies, as they rarely will have a bad effect upon the success rate.  What are the risks of cancer and do they increase with the reversal?  There was a report several years ago stating that men with vasectomies had a higher rate of prostate cancer. This report has since been challenged and, for the most part, disproven. There is also no evidence to show that reversal of the vasectomy would have any effect upon risk of cancer.  How many times can a reversal be done?  There is no maximum number of times that a man can have a reversal, although the success rate may decrease with increased number of reversals. However, there is good data to show that “redo-reversals” can have as high a success rate as first-time reversals. The more surgery is performed, the greater the likelihood of scarring in the scrotum, making subsequent surgeries more difficult.  What are my options if you do not find sperm in the vas at the time of surgery?  If the surgeon is experienced in doing vasectomy reversals, they should be able to find the blockage, which is likely to be in the epididymis, and perform the bypass above that point. However, if the surgeon is not able to perform this bypass, then the best thing to do is reattach to two ends of the vas and hope for the best. That is why it is important that prior to surgery, the patient question the surgeon regarding their experience in vasectomy reversals to determine if they would be able to perform both types of bypasses.  I had a reversal and checked okay at 6 weeks. Would scarring be a concern after this amount of time?  Scarring can occur at any time after a vasectomy reversal although it typically occurs within the first six months. Therefore, even if there was sperm in the ejaculate after six weeks, it is possible that scarring could occur later on. We typically offer sperm banking in case late scarring does occur.  How would I find a good surgeon for the procedure?  It is important to choose a surgeon who performs reversals on a regular basis, preferably someone with fellowship training or other special training in male infertility. Patients should ask the surgeon how often they perform the procedure, what their own personal success rate is, both in obtaining sperm and pregnancy rates, and if they have the ability to perform both types of reversals.  Are there any effects to the sperm quality after several years of a vasectomy and reattachment?  The sperm quality should return to normal 3 to 6 months following a reversal as it takes that long for the testicles to make new sperm. However, the count and the motility may be lower after reversal due to partial blockage or scarring.  How often should you check on scarring?  We typically recommend checking every 3 months, and we offer sperm banking based upon the quality of the sample. The chance of scarring is approximately 7 to 10 percent in the first 1 to 2 years following a successful reversal.  What are the statistics of men in the United States who are infertile and can that be reversed?  The incidence of male infertility is not well known, however, approximately 15 percent of U.S. couples have fertility problems and half of those are related to the male factor. Therefore, in any couple that is having fertility problems, there is a 50 percent chance that the male may be involved and therefore he should be evaluated.  Is it safe to get a boy a vasectomy for his 18th birthday then be able to switch it back later when he decides to have children?  No, we do not feel that is a reasonable option. Vasectomy reversals do not always work and in someone who is both young and never fathered children, it is probably not a good idea. We would counsel this patient to reconsider having a vasectomy. Prior to a vasectomy, the patient and his partner should be absolutely sure that they are done having children.  How does one prepare for the vasectomy or the reversal?  Prior to a vasectomy, the patient and his partner should be absolutely sure that they are done having children. There are no special preparations in terms of abstaining from ejaculation prior to either the vasectomy or the reversal. The patient should be aware that a vasectomy reversal is a more expensive procedure than the original vasectomy and likely will take longer to recover.  What is the recovery for a vasectomy and the reversal?  Most men will recover from a vasectomy in a couple of days. We typically recommend taking it easy for 2 days, using ice packs and scrotal support, and then going back to work 2 or 3 days later. However, vasectomy reversals tend to take longer, depending on the type of work that the patient does. While some men can return to a desk job in 3 or 4 days, we recommend that heavy construction and lifting should be avoided for 4 weeks after a vasectomy reversal.  What is the oldest age for a male to be considered for reversal?  The success of the reversal is related more to the age of the female rather than the male. Therefore, there is no age limit for a reversal.  Have any studies been done to show what the psychological/emotional problems are for a vasectomy or reversal?  A report on psychological factors prior to a vasectomy has suggested that most men are not worried about having a vasectomy, but they are a little concerned regarding the recovery of a vasectomy. Very few men have reported serious psychological or emotional problems following their vasectomy.        Interested in using our health content?   Use of Health Topics         Locations & Contact          University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics    200 Hawkins Drive Iowa City , IA  52242      Urology Clinic     Urology Clinic    Elevator E, Level 3    319-356-2421    Male Infertility Clinic     Urology Clinic    Elevator E, Level 3    319-356-2421          Additional Locations                  Your Visit  Find a Doctor  MyChart  Request an Appointment  Share Your Story  UIeCare      Employees  Job Seekers  Nursing at Iowa  Donate  Referring Providers  Volunteers  Questions, Comments, Complaints      UI Health Care  UI Stead Family Children's Hospital  UI Physicians  UI Carver College of Medicine  About Us         University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics   200 Hawkins Drive  Iowa City , IA  52242   800-777-8442                           Nondiscrimination Notice  Aviso de No Discriminación  無歧視一視同仁聲明  Tuyên bố không kỳ thị  Izjava bez diskriminacije  ...      Servicio de Interpretes Gratuito  免費翻譯服務  Thông dịch viên miễn phí  Bezplatna usluga prevodilaca/tumaca  ...        HIPAA Privacy Policy  Web Privacy Policy     Copyright © 2018 The University of Iowa . All Rights Reserved.                                  This content does not have an English version.  This content does not have an Arabic version.           Menu  Patient Care & Health Info Quality Care Find out why Mayo Clinic is the right place for your health care. Make an appointment. . Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases & Conditions A-Z Tests & Procedures A-Z Drugs & Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Patient Online Services Departments & Centers Meet the Staff Find a directory of doctors and departments at all Mayo Clinic campuses. Visit now. . Doctors & Medical Staff Medical Departments & Centers Research Centers & Programs About Mayo Clinic Contact Us Research Research and Clinical Trials See how Mayo Clinic research and clinical trials advance the science of medicine and improve patient care. Explore now. . Explore Research Labs Find Clinical Trials Research Faculty Postdoctoral Fellowships Discovery's Edge Magazine Search Publications Training Grant Positions Education Visit Our Schools Educators at Mayo Clinic train tomorrow’s leaders to deliver compassionate, high-value, safe patient care. Choose a degree. . Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Alumni Center For Medical Professionals Professional Services Explore Mayo Clinic’s many resources and see jobs available for medical professionals. Get updates. . Provider Relations Online Services for Referring Physicians Video Center Publications Continuing Medical Education Mayo Medical Laboratories Products & Services Healthy Living Program Sports Medicine Books and more ... Mayo Clinic Health Letter Medical Products Population Health and Wellness Programs Medical Laboratory Services Mayo Clinic Voice Apps Giving to Mayo Clinic Give to Mayo Clinic Help set a new world standard in care for people everywhere. Give now. . Give Now Your Impact Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us to Give Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Job Give Now    Search           Twitter Facebook Google YouTube Pinterest     Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Job Give Now       Log in to Patient Account    English   Español  Português  العربية  中国语          Request an Appointment    Patient Care & Health Information  Tests & Procedures    Vasectomy reversal    Sections About Care at Mayo Clinic         Overview Vasectomy reversal is surgery to undo a vasectomy. It reconnects each tube (vas deferens) that carries sperm from a testicle into the semen. After a successful vasectomy reversal, sperm are again present in the semen and you may be able to get your partner pregnant.  Success rates with vasectomy reversal will range from about 40 percent to over 90 percent. Many factors affect whether a reversal is successful in achieving pregnancy, including time since a vasectomy, partner age, definition of success, and surgeon experience and training.          Mayo Clinic's approach      Why it's done Men decide to have a vasectomy reversal for a number of reasons, including loss of a child, a change of heart or remarriage. A small number of men have a vasectomy reversal to treat testicular pain that may be linked to a vasectomy.            Infertility — Not just a female condition   Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic  Risks Almost all vasectomies can be reversed. However, this doesn't guarantee success in conceiving a child. Vasectomy reversal can be attempted even if several years have passed since the original vasectomy — but the longer it's been, the less likely it is that the reversal will work.  Vasectomy reversal rarely leads to serious complications. Risks include:   Bleeding within the scrotum. This can lead to a collection of blood (hematoma) that causes painful swelling. You can reduce the risk of hematoma by following your doctor's instructions to rest after surgery. Ask your doctor if you need to avoid aspirin or other types of blood-thinning medication before and after surgery.  Infection at the surgery site. Although very uncommon, infections are a risk with any surgery and may require treatment with antibiotics in certain situations.  Chronic pain. Persistent pain after vasectomy reversal is very uncommon.   How you prepare When considering vasectomy reversal, here are a few things to think about:   Vasectomy reversal may be expensive, and your insurance might not cover it. Find out about costs ahead of time.  Vasectomy reversals are generally most successful when they're done by a surgeon who is trained in and uses microsurgical techniques.  The procedure is most successful when performed by a surgeon who has done the procedure many times.   When choosing a doctor, don't be afraid to ask questions about how many vasectomy reversals the doctor has done, the type of techniques used and how often the vasectomy reversals have resulted in pregnancy. Also ask about the risks and potential complications of the procedure.  Food and medications Make sure you know what steps you need to take before surgery. Your doctor will probably ask you to stop taking certain medications, including blood-thinning medications and pain relievers, such as aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), because they can increase your risk of bleeding.  Clothing and personal items Bring tight-fitting undergarments, such as an athletic supporter, to wear after surgery. This will support your scrotum and hold bandages in place.  Other precautions Arrange for someone to drive you home after surgery. Surgery generally takes about three to four hours. You may need additional time to recover from anesthesia. Ask your doctor when you can expect to go home after surgery.  What you can expect Before the procedure  Before vasectomy reversal surgery, your doctor will likely want to:   Take your history and perform a physical exam. Your doctor will want to make sure that you don't have health concerns that could complicate surgery.  Check to see whether you can produce healthy sperm. For most men, having fathered a child before is proof enough. In rare cases, if your doctor is unsure whether you are producing healthy sperm, you may need additional testing.  Confirm that your partner is capable of having a child. Your doctor will want to see whether your partner has any fertility problems, especially if your partner has never had a child or is older than age 40. This may require a gynecological examination and other tests.   Doctors usually perform vasectomy reversals at a surgery center or hospital. The procedure is generally done on an outpatient basis — without an overnight stay.  Your doctor may use general anesthesia to make you unconscious during surgery. Or your surgeon may give you an anesthetic that keeps you from feeling pain, but doesn't put you to sleep — such as an epidural, spinal or local anesthetic.  Vasectomy reversal is more difficult than a vasectomy. It requires specialized skills and expertise. Doctors performing this surgery usually will re-attach the vas deferens in one of two ways:   Vasovasostomy (vas-o-vay-ZOS-tuh-me). With this procedure, the surgeon sews back together the severed ends of each tube that carries sperm (vas deferens).  Vasoepididymostomy (vas-o-ep-ih-did-ih-MOS-tuh-me). This surgery attaches the vas deferens directly to the small organ at the back of each testicle that holds sperm (epididymis). A vasoepididymostomy is more complicated than a vasovasostomy and is generally chosen if a vasovasostomy can't be done or isn't likely to work.   You probably won't know ahead of time which technique is needed. In most cases, the surgeon decides during the operation which technique will work best.  Sometimes a combination of the two surgical techniques is needed — a vasovasostomy on one side and a vasoepididymostomy on the other. The decision to perform a vasovasostomy versus a vasoepididymostomy depends on whether sperm are seen when fluid from the vas deferens is analyzed at the time of surgery.  During the procedure During surgery, your doctor will make a small cut (incision) on the underside of your scrotum. This will expose the tube that carries sperm (vas deferens) and release it from surrounding tissues.  Next, the doctor will cut open the vas deferens and examine the fluid inside. When sperm are present in the fluid, the ends of the vas deferens can be connected to re-establish the passageway for sperm.  If the fluid is thick or pasty, or if it contains no sperm or partial sperm, scar tissue may be blocking sperm flow. In this case, your doctor may choose to perform a vasoepididymostomy.  After the procedure Immediately after surgery, your doctor will cover the incisions with bandages. You'll put on tight-fitting undergarments, such as an athletic supporter, and apply ice to reduce swelling.  You may be sore for several days. If your doctor places bandages over the incisions after your surgery, ask when it's OK to take them off. Any stitches should dissolve in seven to 10 days.  After you return home, take it easy and try to limit any activities that might cause the testicles to move around excessively. As the anesthetic wears off, you may have some pain and swelling. For most men, the pain isn't severe and gets better after a few days to a week.  Your doctor may also give you the following instructions:   Wear an athletic supporter for several weeks at all times, except when showering. After that, you'll need to continue to wear it during exercise.  For the first two days after surgery, avoid anything that might get the surgery site wet, such as bathing or swimming.  Limit any activities that may pull on the testicles or scrotum, such as jogging, sporting activities, biking or heavy lifting, for at least two to four weeks after surgery.  If you have a desk job, you'll probably be able to return to work a few days after surgery. If you perform physical labor or have a job that requires much walking or driving, talk to your doctor about when it's safe to go back to work.  Don't have sexual intercourse or ejaculate until your doctor says it's OK. Most men need to refrain from sex for two to three weeks after surgery.   Freezing sperm If your doctor finds sperm during surgery, you may choose to have some frozen in case your vasectomy reversal doesn't work (cryopreservation). If you're not able to father a child through sexual intercourse, you may still be able to have children through assisted reproductive techniques such as in vitro fertilization.  For more information on determining whether freezing sperm at the time of your vasectomy reversal is appropriate for you, go to the " Costs & insurance " page.  Results About six to eight weeks after surgery, your doctor will examine your semen under a microscope to see if the operation was successful.  Your doctor may want to check your semen periodically. Unless you get your partner pregnant, checking your semen for sperm is the only way to tell if your vasectomy reversal was a success.  When a vasectomy reversal is successful, sperm usually appear in the semen after a few months, but it can sometimes take a year or more. The likelihood of achieving pregnancy depends on various factors, including the length of time that passed since the vasectomy and the female partner's age.  If the vasectomy reversal doesn't work Vasectomy reversals sometimes fail if there is an underlying issue with the testicle, which cannot be recognized during surgery, or if a blockage develops sometime after surgery. Some men have a second-attempt vasectomy reversal surgery if the procedure doesn't work the first time.  You may also be able to father a child through in vitro fertilization by using frozen sperm retrieved during a semen analysis during your vasectomy reversal. If you didn't have sperm frozen or you do not have any sperm in your ejaculate, in vitro fertilization may still be possible using sperm retrieved directly from your testicle or epididymis.  How can I find out my predicted success rate? There are many factors that contribute to a successful outcome. To receive an estimate of your anticipated success rate, please email VasectomyReversal@mayo.edu and request a questionnaire.  Once your responses are received, they will be compared to a database of success rates to give you estimates of the chance of return of any sperm, sperm counts considered within "normal" range, pregnancy rate and risks of later failure after an initial success. It typically takes 1 to 2 business days to receive an email back once you submit the form.  Clinical trials   Explore Mayo Clinic studies testing new treatments, interventions and tests as a means to prevent, detect, treat or manage this disease.  Frequently Asked Questions How do I pick a surgeon? Several factors are important when selecting a male fertility surgeon and health care team, including experience, surgical abilities, technology and support staff.  Because vasectomy reversal is a very specialized procedure, the training and experience of your surgeon will likely have the biggest impact on your overall outcomes. Surgeons who have the most training to treat male infertility are urologists who have received specialized fellowship training in microsurgery and male fertility.  Although the majority of vasectomy reversals will only require surgery within the scrotum, in some cases, a reconstruction is required inside of the abdomen. This sometimes occurs when the vas deferens has become blocked from causes other than a vasectomy, such as after a hernia repair. In these cases, often the traditional repair of the vas deferens cannot be performed, and a more complex procedure (robotic-assisted intra-abdominal repair of the vas deferens) is required. Very few surgeons have experience with both traditional microscopic and robotic-assisted techniques required to perform a successful repair in cases such as this.  When choosing a doctor, don't be afraid to ask questions about how many vasectomy reversals the doctor has done, the type of techniques used and how often the vasectomy reversals have resulted in pregnancy.  How can I compare success rates between surgeons? Given the complexity of couples' fertility, success rates with vasectomy reversals are difficult to define. In addition, the most important measure of success — a healthy baby — is not commonly reported in studies.  Reported success rates following vasectomy reversal are often oversimplified. Some surgeons only operate on men who are more likely to have a successful outcome (younger men with less time since the vasectomy), which may artificially increase reported success rates. Some only report outcomes if a vasovasostomy is performed on both sides and exclude results from more complex, and less successful, procedures.  Similarly, the definition of success is not consistent between surgeons. Some will call a vasectomy reversal successful if one sperm is seen at any point after the procedure, while others require over 1 million sperm to be considered a success. This is important because a normal sperm count is considered to be more than 39 million sperm per ejaculation, with 40 percent of those sperm being motile.  It's important to know that over time a percentage of men with an initially successful reversal will experience a failure with few or no sperm in the ejaculate. It's not clear why this happens, but it may occur even several months after an initially successful procedure.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of vasectomy reversal and assisted reproductive techniques (ART)? Benefits of vasectomy reversal include the minimally invasive nature of the procedure, lower cost, natural conception, ability to father more than one child without additional procedures, option to freeze sperm at the time of reversal and ease in retrieving sperm if assisted reproductive techniques (ART) are desired in the future.  Disadvantages include the possible need for another reversal (if the initial reversal is unsuccessful), occasional inadequate sperm counts to achieve a pregnancy and limited data on long-term success rates.  Advantages with ART include greater control of the timing of pregnancy, ability to perform with low sperm counts and optional chromosomal testing on the embryo to be implanted. Disadvantages are costs, possible need for multiple cycles, moral or ethical concerns, and need to repeat ART each time pregnancy is desired.  What should I consider when deciding on vasectomy reversal vs. ART? Individual priorities will ultimately determine which procedure you choose.  In general, vasectomy reversal tends to be one of the least expensive options for achieving a pregnancy following vasectomy. You might opt for vasectomy reversal because of moral or religious preferences, financial limitations, the desire for more than one child or the desire to avoid ovulation stimulatory medications.  ART may be a better option if your partner is older (particularly older than 37 to 40 years of age), it's been several years since your vasectomy (more than15 years), you only want one child and you want to have chromosomal testing.  Costs for ART are generally higher. While costs vary significantly throughout the U.S., the current estimated costs are approximately $15,000 for the first cycle and $5,000 for subsequent cycles at Mayo Clinic's campus in Rochester, Minnesota. Often more than one cycle is required to achieve a successful pregnancy.  In addition, procedures to retrieve and store sperm from the testicle may cost an additional $2,500 to $4,000 plus $275 to $500 a year to store the frozen sperm. Success rates with each cycle depend on several factors, including the quality of sperm and age and health of the mother.  For more information on which approach might be right for you, please email VasectomyReversal@mayo.edu and request a questionnaire.  By Mayo Clinic Staff    Vasectomy reversal care at Mayo Clinic   Request an Appointment at Mayo Clinic  Care at Mayo Clinic  Dec. 30, 2017    Share on: Facebook Twitter    References  Dickey RM, et al. The evolution of vasectomy reversal. Current Urology Reports. 2015;16:40.  What is vasectomy reversal? Urology Care Foundation. http://www.urologyhealth.org/urologic-conditions/vasectomy-reversal. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Wein AJ, et al., eds. Surgical management of male infertility. In: Campbell-Walsh Urology. 10th ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: Saunders Elsevier; 2012. http://www.clinicalkey.com. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Rayala BZ, et al. Common questions about vasectomy. American Family Physician. 2013;88:757.  Wespes E. Vasectomy in male contraception and its reversal. European Urology Supplements. 2014;13:68.  Smith JA, et al. Vasovasostomy and vasoepididymostomy. In: Hinman's Atlas of Urologic Surgery. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, Pa.: Saunders Elsevier; 2012. http://www.clinicalkey.com. Accessed Oct. 8, 2015.  Ongaro TJ. Overview of vasectomy. http://www.uptodate.com/home. Accessed Nov. 20, 2015.  Barbara Woodward Lips Patient Education Center. Vasectomy reversal. Rochester, Minn.: Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research; 2012.  Trost LW (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. Dec. 5, 2015.  Castle EP (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ. Dec. 6, 2015.     Related Vasovasostomy Epididymovasostomy Infertility — Not just a female condition Vasectomy       Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been recognized as one of the top Urology hospitals in the nation for 2017-2018 by U.S. News & World Report.  Learn more about this top honor      Vasectomy reversal About Care at Mayo Clinic      Advertisement     Mayo Clinic does not endorse companies or products. Advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission.  Advertising & Sponsorship   Policy  Opportunities  Ad Choices      Mayo Clinic Marketplace  Check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from Mayo Clinic.  FREE TRIAL – Mayo Clinic Health Letter Stop Osteoporosis in Its Tracks Improve Your Hearing and Balance Best Treatment Strategies for Arthritis The Mayo Clinic Diet Online            PRC-20154756    Patient Care & Health Information  Tests & Procedures  Vasectomy reversal               Request Appointment Contact Us About Mayo Clinic Employees Find a Job Site Map About This Site    Twitter Facebook Google YouTube Pinterest    Mayo Clinic is a not-for-profit organization. Make a donation.     Patient Care & Health Info Healthy Lifestyle Symptoms A-Z Diseases & Conditions A-Z Tests & Procedures A-Z Drugs & Supplements A-Z Appointments Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Patient Online Services Departments & Centers Doctors & Medical Staff Medical Departments & Centers Research Centers & Programs About Mayo Clinic Contact Us Research Explore Research Labs Find Clinical Trials Research Faculty Postdoctoral Fellowships Discovery's Edge Magazine Search Publications Training Grant Positions Education Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Alumni Center For Medical Professionals Provider Relations Online Services for Referring Physicians Video Center Publications Continuing Medical Education Mayo Medical Laboratories Products & Services Healthy Living Program Sports Medicine Books and more ... Mayo Clinic Health Letter Medical Products Population Health and Wellness Programs Medical Laboratory Services Mayo Clinic Voice Apps      Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below. Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Reprint Permissions A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.  This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.     © 1998-2018 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.                  Rate Us   888-684-7036  Menu            中文  Call Today: 888-684-7036           Schedule a consultation   Located in Los Angeles but serving the world          About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance       Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information       Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs       Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele       Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal       Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials       Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews       Blog      Contact   Out of Town Patients              FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal            Dr. Philip Werthman has performed more than 8,000 successful Vasectomy Reversals.   Is it really possible to reverse a vasectomy?  Vasectomy reversal is not only possible but is highly successful when performed by an experienced male infertility micro-surgeon. Unfortunately, other doctors without these special skills will often attempt to perform the surgery themselves, rather than referring the patient to a male infertility specialist. To have your best chance for success, you should see a specialist.    As a patient, you will need to make sure that your doctor performs the procedure regularly and successfully. A good idea is to ask to speak with some of his patients that have already undergone the procedure.  Studies have shown that the outcome of surgery is so dependent on the surgical technique and the surgeon who performs it that it is well worth making the extra effort in going to a specialized center. Although failed vasectomy reversals can be repaired, the first attempt at reversal is the easiest, most cost effective and affords the best opportunity for success.   What is the success rate for vasectomy reversals?  The results of vasectomy reversal are reported as two percentages. The first is patency rate, or the percentage of men who have sperm restored to the ejaculate after reversal. This means that the operation was technically successful, and is commonly known as the vasectomy reversal success rate.  The second statistic reported is the pregnancy rate. The pregnancy rate is always lower than the patency rate because many more factors play a role in getting pregnant beyond the return of sperm in the ejaculate.  The results of microsurgical vasovasostomy from the Vasovasostomy Study Group data are greater than 90% patency if sperm were present in the vasal fluid at the time of surgery, and pregnancy rates up to 76%.  This is the study quoted by most surgeons when asked about results of vasectomy reversal.  Dr. Werthman’s personal results to date are an over 98% patency rate (sperm restored to the ejaculate) if sperm were present in the vasal fluid at surgery. This data is from the last 1000 vasectomy reversals performed by Dr. Werthman.   Don’t you need to check to see if I am still making sperm after my vasectomy?  Men continue to make sperm regardless of how long it has been since the vasectomy unless other factors come into play. Some of those include injury to the testicles, exposure to chemicals or toxins, and certain serious medical problems. Barring any of these situations, no investigation need be undertaken prior to a reversal to assess sperm production.  Some older physicians are still performing testicular biopsies prior to vasectomy reversal. This is no longer recommended or necessary.   It has been a long time since my vasectomy; can I still get it reversed?  It is definitely true that the closer you are to the time of your vasectomy, the easier it will be for us to reverse it. However, in the hands of a skilled micro-surgical specialist who is experienced in vasectomy reversal, even men who have waited 15 years and longer since their vasectomy can enjoy a complete reversal and fatherhood.  The latest study to look at success rates of vasectomy reversal performed 15 years or more after vasectomy (published in Fertility and Sterility, March 2002) shows that the pregnancy rates for intervals 15-19 years, 20-25 years and greater than 25 years are 49%, 39%, and 25% respectively.  The Los Angeles Times Health Section recently ran an article on the increased success of vasectomy reversal for vasectomies more than 15 years old.  Dr. Werthman has helped a man father a child 57 years after his vasectomy, the oldest on record.   My urologist did a vasectomy reversal, but it hasn't worked. Can it be re-done successfully?  Because a vasectomy reversal has failed does not mean all hope is lost. Re-doing the surgery using meticulous and proper technique can produce success in more than 80% of cases.  At the Center for Male Reproductive Medicine, we specialize in re-do vasectomy reversals. 10% of the reversals we perform are re-operations on patients who had failed surgery elsewhere. Dr. Werthman currently performs two to four vasectomy reversals per week.  More than half of our patients travel from outside the Los Angeles area for treatment, so we are fully prepared to help with all the information you require, as well as with accommodations.  Typically, patients stay in Los Angeles for 2-3 days. Dr. Werthman will perform the initial evaluation a day prior to the procedure, and you will be ready to return home one day after the procedure.  We offer patients all the possible options to get pregnant, as well as combinations of treatments. That way, you can choose what is best for you, not what we might want you to do because of our own limitations.   Won’t sperm anti-bodies keep my wife from getting pregnant, even after a vasectomy reversal?  It is actually unlikely that this would be an issue for you. Most patients do not have antibodies present on their sperm after a vasectomy reversal, and most couples don’t have a problem getting pregnant after vasectomy reversal because of antibodies.  Antibodies are small molecules that the body produces to fight off infections and other substances that the body thinks don’t belong. The antibodies stick to the invader and help destroy it.  Sperm are made in the testicle and shielded from the immune system such that in the normal situation the body doesn’t even know they are there. When a man has a vasectomy, the vas is cut and the sperm may leak out. This could allow the body to “see” sperm for the first time. The body’s natural reaction is to produce antibodies to try and kill the sperm.  If we measured the blood of men who underwent vasectomy then we could detect antibodies to proteins located on sperm in the blood of 70% of these men. While this number seems very high, it is somewhat meaningless. The reason is that only antibodies measured on the sperm themselves, not in the blood may play a role in hindering pregnancy.  A recent study published in the medical journal Urology showed that it was actually a partial blockage of the vas after the reversal that was responsible for poor sperm quality, and not anti-sperm antibodies. When the reversal was fixed, the patients got pregnant in most cases. So, while antibodies can cause problems for some patients, they are clearly not responsible for most cases of post-vasectomy reversal infertility.   My wife is over 37, is there really any point in getting my vasectomy reversed?  Yes, there is. While a woman’s fertility does start to decline when she is in her thirties, many women can still conceive into their forties. The pregnancy rates for women ages 36-40 and greater than 40 years old whose husbands underwent vasectomy reversal are 32% and 28% respectively. (Fertility and Sterility, March 2002)  The pregnancy rates for any fertility enhancing procedure are related to the female partner’s age. While in-vitro fertilization does give the opportunity for the quickest way to conceive in a given cycle, the success rates per cycle for women over 37 decrease dramatically to less than ten percent for women over 41.  The oldest woman to conceive whose husband we treated with vasectomy reversal was 47 and the oldest women to deliver a baby was 44 at the time when the reversal was performed.   With ICSI (IntraCytoplasmic sperm injection) only a handful of sperm are needed, why should I have a vasectomy reversal?  Both vasectomy reversal and ICSI/sperm aspiration are good alternatives to father a child after vasectomy. They each have advantages and drawbacks.  In most situations, vasectomy reversal offers the greatest chance for pregnancy. It requires one procedure to be performed only on the man and couples can then try to get pregnant every month the old fashioned way using “IBF” or what we call “in-bed fertilization.”  ICSI on the other hand requires that both partners undergo a procedure. The woman is stimulated with fertility drugs to treat what is really a “male problem.”  The costs of establishing a pregnancy are three times greater with ICSI than with vasectomy reversal. It is even less expensive to have a vasectomy reversal and a repeat vasectomy (if desired) than to have ICSI.  The advantage of ICSI is the possibility for some couples to establish a pregnancy quicker than with vasectomy reversal.  We recommend ICSI/sperm harvesting in those situations where vasectomy reversal would be difficult or impossible, the female partner is of advanced reproductive age, or when there is also a female factor contributing to the infertility.  Each couples’ circumstances are unique and need to be addressed on an individual basis. Our goal is to assist couples in having a child of their own, regardless of the path they choose.     Schedule Your Consultation Today  Schedule a private consultation with male fertility doctor Dr. Phillip Werthman to learn about your male reproduction options and get all of your questions answered.  Call us at 888-684-7036  or click here to schedule an appointment online »          About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance     Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   Vasoepididymostomy  Vasovasostomy    IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information     Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Sperm Aspiration  MESA  Micro-TESE  Varicocele Repair  Hormone Treatment    Male Infertility FAQs     Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele     Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Conventional vs. No-Scalpel Vasectomy  Vasectomy vs. Tubal Ligation  Vasectomy FAQs  Vasectomy Patient Information    Vasectomy Reversal     Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials     Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews     Blog    Contact   Out of Town Patients        Patient Education Center  View our extended patient education center.    Articles »    Videos »               About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance       Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information       Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs       Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele       Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal       Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials       Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews       Blog      Contact   Out of Town Patients          Center for Male Reproductive Medicine  & Vasectomy Reversal  Office of Dr. Werthman    Phone  888-684-7036   Los Angeles Office Hours:  Mon-Thu 9AM-5PM Friday 9AM-3PM    Los Angeles Office Medical Office Building 2080 Century Park East, Suite 907 Los Angeles, CA 90067  Santa Barbara Office 5333 Hollister Ave, Suite 275 Santa Barbara, CA 93105   4.5 Stars From 13 Reviews            © 2018 Center for Male Reproductive Medicine All Rights Reserved.  Design & Development Studio III          Loading...   Rate Us!  Please take a moment to rate your experience with our team.            Yelp  Google  Facebook    Let us know what we can do to improve by filling out the contact form.                        Contact Us Today    Home   About CMRM   CMRM Difference  Message From Our Director  Dr. Cappy Rothman  Dr. Philip Werthman  Research & Publications  Awards  Financing/Insurance     Vasectomy Reversal   Reversal Procedures   IVF vs. Vasectomy Reversal  Post-Vasectomy Pain Syndrome  FAQs About Vasectomy Reversal  Choosing Your Surgeon  Vasectomy Reversal Patient Information     Male Infertility   Testing  Causes  Evaluation  Treatment   Male Infertility FAQs     Conditions   Azoospermia  Chronic Testicular Pain  Ejaculatory Failure  Enlarged Prostate  Impotence  Klinefelter's Syndrome  Male Infertility  Penile Curvature  Prostatitis  Varicocele     Procedures   Genetics and Testing  Hormone Treatment  IVF and ICSI  MESA  Micro-TESE  Sperm Aspiration  Varicocele Repair  Vasectomy   Vasectomy Reversal     Testimonials   Miracle Babies  Freedom from Pain  Patients in the Press  Video Testimonials     Media   TV, Online, & Print  Videos  Radio Interviews     Blog   Patient Education   Contact   Out of Town Patients       Center for Male Reproductive Medicine  888-684-7036             Vasectomy reversal   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search     Vasectomy reversal     [ edit on Wikidata ]     Vasectomy reversal is a term used for surgical procedures that reconnect the male reproductive tract after interruption by a vasectomy . Two procedures are possible at the time of vasectomy reversal: vasovasostomy (vas deferens to vas deferens connection) and vasoepididymostomy (epididymis to vas deferens connection). Although vasectomy is considered a permanent form of contraception, advances in microsurgery have improved the success of vasectomy reversal procedures. The procedures remain technically demanding and expensive, and may not restore the pre-vasectomy condition.     Contents    1  Procedure   1.1  Preparation  1.2  Assessing biology  1.3  Vasovasostomy  1.4  Vasoepididymostomy    2  Success Rates   2.1  Success rates: patency  2.2  Success rates: pregnancy    3  Failure and complications   3.1  Failure  3.2  Complications    4  Alternatives: assisted reproduction  5  Alternatives: how to choose  6  Patient expectations  7  Biological considerations  8  Prevalence  9  History  10  References  11  External links     Procedure [ edit ]  Preparation [ edit ]  A general or regional anesthetic is most commonly used, as this offers the least interruption by patient movement for microsurgery. Local anesthesia , with or without sedation , can also be used. The procedure is generally done on a “come and go” basis. The actual operating time can range from 1–4 hours, depending on the anatomical complexity, skill of the surgeon and the kind of procedure performed.  Assessing biology [ edit ]  After anesthesia and scrubbing the scrotum with soap and water, the vas deferens is exposed through a small, 1–2 cm incision in the upper scrotum on each side. The vas deferens is cut sharply in half, both above and below the vasectomy site. A special bipolar microcautery is used to judiciously control any bleeding. One end of the vas deferens, termed the abdominal end, is inspected and flushed with salt solution to ensure that it is not blocked as it courses from the scrotum to the prostate (a “saline vasogram”). In order to assess for the presence of possible obstruction above the vasectomy site the testicular end of the vas deferens can be compressed and inspected for fluid. This fluid is examined with a microscope for color, consistency and for sperm. This information is used by some surgeons to decide whether or not a secondary epididymal obstruction is present (see Table below).      Grade  Vasal Fluid Findings  Procedure Suggested    1  Normal appearing sperm with motility  Vasovasostomy    2  Mostly normal appearing, nonmotile  Vasovasostomy    3  Mostly sperm heads without tails, nonmotile  Vasovasostomy    4  Only sperm heads  Vasovasostomy    5  No sperm, creamy fluid  Vasoepididymostomy    6  No fluid  Vasoepididymostomy    7  Clear fluid, no sperm  It depends      If sperm are found at the testicular end of the vas deferens, then it is assumed that a secondary epididymal obstruction has not occurred and a vas deferens-to-vas deferens reconnection ( vasovasostomy ) is planned. If sperm are not found, then some surgeon consider this to be prime facie evidence that an epididymal obstruction is present and that an epididymis to vas deferens connection (vasoepididymostomy) should be considered to restore sperm flow. Other, more subtle findings that can be observed in the fluid—including the presence of sperm fragments and clear, good quality fluid without any sperm—require surgical decision-making to successfully treat. There are however, no large randomised prospective controlled trials comparing patency or pregnancy rates following the decision to perform either microsurgical vasovasostomy to microsurgical vasoepididymosty as determined by this paradigm.  Vasovasostomy [ edit ]  Main article: Vasovasostomy  For a vasovasostomy , two microsurgical approaches are most commonly used. Neither has proven superior to the other. [1] What has been shown to be important, however, is that the surgeon use optical magnification to perform the vasectomy reversal. One approach is the modified 1-layer vasovasostomy and the other is a formal, 2-layer vasovasostomy.  Vasoepididymostomy [ edit ]  Main article: Vasoepididymostomy  A vasoepididymostomy involves a connection of the vas deferens to the epididymis . This is necessary when there is no sperm present in the vas deferens.  Success Rates [ edit ]  Success rates: patency [ edit ]  With vasectomy reversal surgery, there are two typical measures of success: patency rate, or return of some moving sperm to the ejaculate after vasectomy reversal, and pregnancy rates. In a recently published report [2] 95% of men with a vasovasostomy had motile sperm in the ejaculate within 1 year after vasectomy reversal. Almost 80% of these men achieved sperm motility within 3 months of vasectomy reversal. The case for vasoepididymostomy is different. Fewer men will eventually achieve motile sperm counts and the time to achieve motile sperm counts is longer.  Additional information:   The age of the patient at the time of vasectomy reversal does not appear to matter. Using different age cut-offs, including <35, 36-45, and > 45 years old, no differences in patency rates were detected in a recent vasectomy reversal series. [2]  The patency rates after vasovasostomy appear equivalent when performed in the straight or convoluted segments of the vas deferens [3]   Another issue to consider is the likelihood of vasoepididymostomy at the time of vasectomy reversal, as this technique is generally associated with lower patency and pregnancy rates than vasovasostomy. Web-based, computer models and calculations have been proposed and published that described the chance of needing an vasoepididymostomy at reversal surgery. [4]  Success rates: pregnancy [ edit ]  The pregnancy rate is often seen as a more reliable way of measuring the success of a vasectomy reversal than the patency rates, as they measure the real-life success of whether the man succeeds in the aim of having a new child.  It is important to appreciate that female age is the single most powerful factor determining the pregnancy rate following any fertility treatment and vasectomy reversal is no exception. No large studies have stratified the results of vasectomy reversal by female age and hence assessing outcomes is confounded by this issue.  Pregnancy rates range widely in published series, with a large study in 1991 observing the best outcome of 76% pregnancy success rate with vasectomy reversals performed within 3 years or less of the original vasectomy, dropping to 53% for reversals 3–8 years out from the vasectomy, 44% for reversals 9–14 years out from the vasectomy, and 30% for reversals 15 or more years after the vasectomy. [5] BPAS cites the average pregnancy success rate of a vasectomy reversal is around 55% if performed within 10 years, and drops to 25% if performed over 10 years. [6] Higher success rates are found with reversal of vasovasostomy than those with a vasoepididymostomy, and factors such as antisperm antibodies and epididymal dysfunction are also implicated in success rates. [7]  Failure and complications [ edit ]  Failure [ edit ]  The current measure of success in vasectomy reversal surgery is achievement of a pregnancy. There are several reasons why a vasectomy reversal may fail to achieve this:   A pregnancy involves two partners. Although the count and quality of sperm may be sufficiently high after vasectomy reversal surgery, female fertility factors may play an indirect role in pregnancy success. If the female partner’s age is >35 years old, the couple should consider a female factor evaluation to determine if they have adequate reproductive potential before a vasectomy reversal is undertaken. This evaluation can be done by a gynecologist and should include a cycle day 3 FSH and estradiol levels, an assessment of menstrual cycle regularity, and a hysterosalpingogram to evaluate for fibroids .  Approximately 50%-80% of men who have had vasectomies develop a reaction against their own sperm (i.e., antisperm antibodies ). [8] High levels of these proteins directed against sperm may impair fertility, either by making it hard for sperm to swim to the egg or by interrupting the way the sperm must interact with the egg. Sperm-bound antibodies are usually assessed >6 months after the vasectomy reversal if no pregnancy has ensued. Treatment options include steroid treatment, intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF) techniques. [9]  Occasionally, scar tissue develops at the site where the vas deferens is reconnected, causing a blockage. Depending on the physician, this occurs in 5-10% of vasovasostomies [10] and up to 35% of vasoepididymostomies. [11] Depending on when it occurs, it may be treated with anti-inflammatory medication or could necessitate repeat vasectomy reversal surgery.  If an epididymal blowout has occurred and is not discovered at the time of vasectomy reversal surgery, the vasectomy reversal will probably fail. In this case, a vasoepididymostomy would need to be performed.  When the vas deferens has been blocked for a long time, the epididymis is adversely affected by elevated pressure. As sperm are nurtured to maturity within the normal epididymis, sperm counts may be sufficiently high to achieve a pregnancy, but sperm movement may be poor. Antioxidants , vitamins (A, C and E), or other supplements are recommended by some centers after vasectomy reversal for this reason. [12] Some patients gradually recover from this epididymal dysfunction. Those patients whose sperm continue to have problems may require IVF to achieve a pregnancy.   Complications [ edit ]  In general, vasectomy reversal is a safe procedure and complication rates are low. There are small chances of infection or bleeding, the latter of which can result in a hematoma or blood clot in the scrotum that needs surgical drainage. If there is significant scar tissue encountered during the vasectomy reversal, fluid other than blood ( seroma ) can also accumulate in a small number of cases. Painful granulomas , caused by leaking sperm, can develop near the surgical site in some cases. Very rare complications include compartment syndrome or deep venous thrombosis from prolonged positioning, testis atrophy due to damaged blood supply, and reactions to anesthesia .  Alternatives: assisted reproduction [ edit ]  Assisted reproduction uses “ test tube baby ” technology (also called in vitro fertilization , IVF) for the female partner along with sperm retrieval techniques for the male partner to help build a family. This technology, including intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), has been available since 1992 and became available as an alternative to vasectomy reversal soon after. This alternative should be discussed with couples during a consultation for vasectomy reversal.  Procedure to extract sperm for IVF include percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration (PESA procedure). testicular sperm extraction (TESE procedure) and open testicular biopsy. Needle aspiration a PESA procedure invariably causes trauma to the epididymal tubule and TESE procedures may damage the intra testicular collecting system (rete testis). Both potentially compromise the prospect of successful vasectomy reversal. Conversely, because in most circumstances vasectomy reversal leads to the restoration of sperm in the semen it reduces the need for sperm retrieval procedures in association with IVF.  Published research attempts to identify the issues that matter most as couples decide between IVF-ICSI and vasectomy reversal, two very different approaches to family building. This research has generally taken the form of cost-effectiveness or cost-benefit analyses [13] and decision analyses [14] and Markov modeling. [15] Since it is difficult to perform randomized, blinded prospective trials on couples in this situation, analytic modeling can help uncover what variables affect outcomes the most. From this body of work, it has been observed that vasectomy reversal can be the most cost-effective way to build a family if: (a) the female partner is reproductively healthy, and (b) the surgeon can achieve good vasectomy reversal outcomes. If the surgeon can achieve high “patency” rates (moving sperm in the ejaculate) after vasectomy reversal, then vasectomy reversal is competitive with IVF-ICSI. [14] In the special instance of couples with advanced maternal age (defined as a female partner > 38 years old), case series’ have reported that pregnancy rates with vasectomy reversal are competitive with IVF-ICSI. [16] When Markov modeling was applied to probe the issue of pregnancy rates after reversal surgery in more depth, the results revealed that female reproductive health is far more important than: (a) the age of the vasectomy, (b) the age of the man, or (c) the vasectomy reversal patency rate. Ultimately the decision to pursue a vasectomy reversal is a personal one for each couple.  Alternatives: how to choose [ edit ]        This article contains content that is written like an advertisement . Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links , and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view .  (September 2017)  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message )           This article contains instructions, advice, or how-to content . The purpose of Wikipedia is to present facts, not to train. Please help improve this article either by rewriting the how-to content or by moving it to Wikiversity , Wikibooks or Wikivoyage .  (September 2017)     Sometimes it is not clear to couples who want children whether they should do a vasectomy reversal or pursue assisted reproduction . There are several questions for couples to ask themselves.   How long ago was the vasectomy performed? An older vasectomy, especially those more than 20–25 years, may make vasectomy reversal less likely to work. [5]  How many children do we want? Sperm retrieval and IVF-ICSI may be a better fit for the couple who wants only one child, as it generally results in both fresh embryos and frozen embryos that can make conceiving one child very reasonable. However, if not pregnancy does not result from IVF the necessary sperm retrieval procedures may compromise the results of subsequent vasectomy reversal.  Are we comfortable with dealing with birth control issues again? Birth control may be required again after vasectomy reversal.  How long are we willing to wait for a child? The average time to pregnancy after vasectomy reversal ranges from 9–14 months. [5]  What will each approach cost us? Most insurance companies do not cover the cost of vasectomy reversal. However, sometimes insurance companies cover the cost (partially or fully) for IVF-ICSI.  Are we comfortable with assisted reproductive technology?  How do we feel about children conceived with the help of technology?   Patient expectations [ edit ]  Every patient who is considering vasectomy reversal should undergo a screening visit before the procedure to learn as much as possible about his current fertility potential. At this visit, the patient can decide whether he is a good candidate for vasectomy reversal and assess if it is right for him. Issues to be discussed at this visit include:     Female partner’s history of past pregnancies  Male’s medical and surgical history  Complications during or after the vasectomy  Female partner’s age, menstrual cycle and fertility  Brief physical examination to assess male reproductive tract anatomy  A review of the vasectomy reversal procedure, its nature, benefits and risks, and complications  Alternatives to vasectomy reversal  Freezing of sperm at the time of vasectomy reversal  Questions about the surgery, the success rates, and recovery  Analysis of hormones such as testosterone or FSH in selected cases to better determine whether sperm production is normal     Immediately before the procedure, the following information is important for patients:     They should eat normally the night before the vasectomy reversal, but follow the directions that anesthesia recommends for the morning of the reversal. If no specific directions are given, all food and drink should be withheld after midnight and on the morning of the surgery.  Stop taking aspirin, or any medications containing ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Aleve), at least 10 days prior to vasectomy reversal, as these medications have a side effect that can reduce platelet function and therefore lower blood clotting ability.  Be prepared to be driven home or to a hotel after the vasectomy reversal     After the procedure, patients should perform the following tasks:     Remove dressings from inside the athletic supporter in 48 hours; continue with the scrotal support for 1 week. Shower once the dressings are removed.  Wear athletic supporter at all times for the first 4 weeks.  Apply frequent ice packs (or frozen peas, any brand) to the scrotum the evening after the vasectomy reversal and the day after that for 24 hours to reduce swelling.  Take prescribed pain medication as directed.  Resume a normal, well-balanced diet upon returning home or to the hotel. Drinks lots of fluids.  Normal, non-vigorous activity can be restarted after 48 hours or when feeling better. Activities that cause discomfort should be stopped for the time being. Heavy activities such as jogging and weight lifting can be resumed in 2 to 4 weeks depending on the particular procedure.  Refrain from sexual intercourse for 4 weeks depending on the procedure and the surgeon’s recommendations.  The semen is checked for sperm at between 6 and 12 weeks post-operatively and then depending on the results may be requested monthly semen analyses are then obtained for about 6 months or until the semen quality stabilizes.  You may experience discomfort after the vasectomy reversal. Symptoms that may not require a doctor's attention are: (a) light bruising and discoloration of the scrotal skin and base of penis. This will take one week to go away. b) limited scrotal swelling (a grapefruit is too large); (c) small amounts of thin, clear, pinkish fluid may drain from the incision for a few days after reversal surgery. Keep the area clean and dry and it will stop.  If you received general anesthesia, a sore throat, nausea, constipation, and general "body ache" may occur. These problems should resolve within 48 hours.  Consider calling a provider for the following issues: (a) wound infection as suggested by a fever, a warm, swollen, red and painful incision area, with pus draining from the site. Antibiotics are necessary to treat this. (b) scrotal hematoma as suggested by extreme discoloration (black and blue) of the skin and continuing scrotal enlargement from bleeding underneath. This can cause throbbing pain and a bulging of the wound. If the scrotum continues to hurt more and continues to enlarge after 72 hours, then it may need to be drained.     Biological considerations [ edit ]  Sperm are produced in the male sex gland or testicle . From there they travel through tubes (efferent tubules), exit the testes and enter a “storage site” or epididymis . The epididymis is a single, 18-foot-long (5.5 m), tightly coiled, small tube, within which sperm mature to the point where they can move, swim and fertilize eggs. Testicular sperm are not able to fertilize eggs naturally (but can if they are injected directly into the egg in the laboratory), as the ability to fertilize eggs is developed slowly over several months of storage in the epididymis. From the epididymis, a 14-inch, 3 mm-thick muscular tube called the vas deferens carries the sperm to the urethra near the base of the penis. The urethra then carries the sperm through the penis during ejaculation . A vasectomy interrupts sperm flow within the vas deferens. After a vasectomy, the testes still make sperm, but because the exit is blocked, the sperm die and eventually are reabsorbed by the body.  A problem in the delicate tubes of epididymis can develop over time after vasectomy. [5] The longer the time since the vasectomy, the greater the “back-pressure” behind the vasectomy. This “back-pressure” may cause a “blowout” in the delicate epididymal tubule, the weakest point in the system. The blowout may or may not cause symptoms, but will probably scar the epididymal tubule, thus blocking sperm flow at second point. To summarize, with time, a man with a vasectomy can develop a second obstruction deeper in the reproductive tract that can make the vasectomy more difficult to reverse. Having the skill to detect and fix this problem during vasectomy reversal is the essence of a skilled surgeon. If the surgeon simply reconnects the two freshened ends of the vas deferens without examining for a second, deeper obstruction, then the procedure can fail, as sperm-containing fluids are still unable to flow to the place of the connection. In this case, the vas deferens must be connected to the epididymis in front of the second blockage, to bypass both blockages and allow the sperm to reenter the urethra in the ejaculate . Since the epididymal tubule is much smaller (0.3 mm diameter) than the vas deferens (3 mm diameter, 10-fold larger), epididymal surgery is far more complicated and precise than the simple vas deferens-to-vas deferens connection.  Prevalence [ edit ]  Vasectomy is a common method of contraception worldwide, with an estimated 40-60 million individuals having the procedure and 5-10% of couples choosing it as a birth control method. [17] In the USA, about 5% of men later go on to have a vasectomy reversal afterwards. [15] However the number of men inquiring about vasectomy reversals is significantly higher, with many "put off" by the high costs of the procedure and pregnancy success rates (as opposed to "patency rates") only being around 55%. [18]  While there are a number of reasons that men seek a vasectomy reversal, some of these include wanting a family with a new partner following a relationship breakdown / divorce, their original wife/partner dying and subsequently going on re-partner and to want children, the unexpected death of a child (or children - such as by car accident), or a long-standing couple changing their mind some time later often by situations such as improved finances or existing children approaching the age of school or leaving home. [19] Patients often comment that they never anticipated such situations as a relationship breakdown or death (of their partner or child) may affect their situation. A small number of vasectomy reversals are also performed in attempts to relieve post-vasectomy pain syndrome .  In the UK, 16% of all men under 70 have had a vasectomy, and with remarriages accounting for 40% of all marriages, there are a significant proportion of men finding themselves in a new relationship and regretting their decision to have a vasectomy. [19] Combined with longer life histories, the rate of divorce and remarriage is thought to be driving the increase in vasectomy reversals and inquiries for vasectomy reversals in recent times. [19]  History [ edit ]  Technical advances in vasectomy reversal mirror those in microsurgery over the past 100 years. As a discipline, microsurgery was first performed by Carl Nylen in Sweden for middle ear surgery in 1910, [20] but grew most rapidly as a discipline in the 20th century stimulated by its success in microvascular reconstruction of war-injured soldiers. The first microsurgical vasectomy reversal was performed by Earl Owen in 1971. [21]  References [ edit ]     ^  Lee H.Y. a 20-year experience with vasovasostomy. J. Urol. 136: 413, 1986, PMID  3525857  ^ a  b  Yang et al. The kinetics of the return of sperm to the ejaculate after the vasectomy reversal. J. Urol. 177: 2271, 2007, PMID  17509339  ^  Patel SR, Sigman M. Comparison of outcomes of vasovasostomy performed in the convoluted and straight vas deferens. J. Urol. 179: 256, 2008, PMID  18001786  ^  Parekatill SJ et al. Multi-institution validation of vasectomy reversal predictor. J. Urol. 175: 24, 2006, PMID  16406922  ^ a  b  c  d  Belker AM et al. Results of 1,469 microsurgical vasectomy reversals by the Vasovasostomy Study Group. J. Urol. 145: 505, 1991, PMID  1997700  ^  Bastuba, Martin. "Vasectomy Reversal Success Rates" . MaleFertility.md . Retrieved 16 September 2015 .   ^  Schwarzer, JU "Vasectomy Reversal using a micro-surgical three layer technique: one surgeon's experience over 18 years with 1300 patients" in International Journal of Andrology April 20, 2012  ^  Ansbacher, R. Humoral sperm antibodies: a 10-year follow-up of vas-ligated men. Fertil Steril 36: 222, 1981, PMID  7262338  ^  Turek PJ. Immunopathology and Infertility. In: Infertility in the Male, 3rd ed. Edited by LI Lipshultz and SS Howards. Mosby Year Book, Philadelphia, 1997.  ^  Eisenberg ML et al. Use of viscoelastic solution to improve visualization during urologic microsurgery: evaluation of patency after vasovasostomy. Urol. 73: 134, 2009, PMID  18977020  ^  Schiff J et al. Outcome and late failures compared in 4 techniques of vasoepididymostomy in 153 consecutive men. J. Urol. 174: 651, 2005, PMID  16006931  ^  Kolettis PN et al. Effect of seminal oxidative stress on fertility after vasectomy reversal. Fertil Steril. 71: 249, 1999, PMID  9988393  ^  Pavlovich CP et al. Fertility options after vasectomy: A cost effectiveness analysis. Fertil Steril. 67: 133, 1997, PMID  8986698  ^ a  b  Meng MV et al. Surgery or assisted reproduction? A decision analysis of treatment costs in male infertility. J. Urol. 174: 1926, 2005, PMID  16217347  ^ a  b  Hsieh MH et al. Markov modeling of vasectomy reversal and ART: How do obstructive interval and female partner age influence cost-effectiveness? Fertil Steril. 88: 840, 2007, PMID  17544418  ^  Gerrard ER et al. Effect of female partner age on pregnancy rates after vasectomy reversal. Fertil Steril. 87: 1340, 2007, PMID  17258213  ^  Griffen et al. How little is enough? The evidence for post vasectomy testing. J. Urol. 174: 29, 2005, PMID  15947571  ^  Laurance, Jeremy (2009) "Vasectomy Reversal: First Cut Isn't Final" in The Independent, March 30, 2009. Viewable on https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/vasectomy-reversal-first-cut-isnt-final-1657039.html  ^ a  b  c  Murphy, Clare "18 March 2009 viewable at: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/7948690.stm  ^  Nylen C.O. Acta Otolaryngologica 73: 453, 1972  ^  Owen E.R. Microsurgery in common cases of male infertility. Int Surg 91 (5 suppl): 85-89, 2006, PMID  17436609      External links [ edit ]   Vasectomy Reversal : Video of microsurgical vasovasostomy          v  t  e    Male genital surgical and other procedures : reproductive system ( ICD-9-CM V3 60–64, ICD-10-PCS 0V )     Internal      Prostate         Transurethral incision of the prostate  Prostate biopsy   Transrectal biopsy  Transurethral biopsy    Prostatectomy   Transurethral resection of the prostate  Radical retropubic prostatectomy    Transurethral microwave thermotherapy  Transurethral needle ablation of the prostate  Brachytherapy   Prostate brachytherapy    Prostate massage       seminal vesicles :     Spermatocelectomy          Vas deferens     Vasectomy  Vasectomy reversal   Vasovasostomy  Vasoepididymostomy         Testes     Orchiectomy   Castration    Orchiopexy          External      Penis         Circumcision  Penectomy  Penile prosthesis  Preputioplasty          Penile plethysmograph  Postage stamp test  Frenuloplasty of prepuce of penis             Tests         Semen analysis       Medical imaging     Transscrotal ultrasound                Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vasectomy_reversal&oldid=834434194 "  Categories : Urologic surgery Male genital surgery Hidden categories: Articles with a promotional tone from September 2017 All articles with a promotional tone Articles needing cleanup from September 2017 All pages needing cleanup Articles containing how-to sections      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      Languages     Add links        This page was last edited on 5 April 2018, at 18:24.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view              