This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Navy SEALs  U.S. Air Force  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Navy (USN)  U.S. Army  United States Armed Forces  Probability (statistics)  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of me dying in different branches of the armed forces? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 19 Answers   Eric Tang , Officer at U.S. Army Answered Feb 27, 2012 · Upvoted by  Paul Frick , Former infantry Staff Sergeant, United States Marine Corps. 3 combat tours, 3 years as an Embassy G… and  Stephen Adams , U. S. Army, Infantry, Drill Sergeant, NCOIC Ft Lee Ops & Trg · Author has 376 answers and 2m answer views Whether or not you get deployed into a war-zone plays a large role in probability of death. I'm assuming you indeed are interested in probability of death in a war-zone. Let me use the Iraq War as a case study. Let me start with this: as a whole, you are 2.5 times more likely to die as a US military member than as a healthy, young civilian in the United States (Preston and Buzzel, 2007). Let's break this down further. There are many factors that contribute to risk of death. According to a study conducted by Preston and Buzzel in 2007, the following factors significantly affect risk of death: (1) branch of service, (2) component of service, (3) rank, and (4) age and sex. I will break down each of these four factors in the following paragraphs. 1. Branch of Service . Branch of service is broken down into Army, Marines, Air Force, and Navy (the Coast Guard was not included in this study). If you are a Marine, you are 2 times more likely to die compared to the Army, 10 times more likely to die when compared to the Navy, and 20 times more likely to die when compared to the Air Force. In fact, if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. 2. Component of Service. This pertains to whether or not you are in Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard. Death rates for Active Duty Army soldiers are 3 times more than Reserve Army soldiers. Army National Guard has an intermediate risk of death. Marines have a high risk of death regardless of component. 3. Rank. Enlisted men have 40% higher mortality rates than Officers. There are exceptions to this though. Army Lieutenants have a 19% higher mortality rate compared to all Army troops combined. Marine Lieutenants have a 11% higher mortality rate compared to all Marines. 4. Age and Sex. Younger military personnel have a higher chance of dying. Males are 5.5 times more likely at risk of dying compared to females. It's interesting to note that Marines are disproportionately young. 64.7% of Marines deployed to Iraq were aged 24 and younger, compared to the Army's 39.5% To sum everything up, if you're young, male, a Marine, and enlisted, you have the highest chance of dying. If you're a young male in the Army or Army National Guard, you have a moderate chance of dying. If you're in the Air Force or Navy, you have a low chance of dying. If you are female, you have a lower chance of dying. I hope this answer paints a clear picture for you. 317.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? Ask New Question Quora User Answered May 20, 2015 · Author has 191 answers and 112.4k answer views I think that it's more dependent on who you're at war with than what branch you're in. I mean, on the surface you would think that infantry, marines, they would get mowed down.  And generally they do, not the supply clerks and nurses, but grunts that didn't do to great on the asvab. Then, what about these modern wars where you're fighting among these lands that have been redirected to go through another pre-industrial age?  If you're in the Navy and not a bomber pilot, you're probably not going to get killed.  It's the twenty year old running around the depleted uranium-saturated streets that's going to get it. So, what if it's not war with the peasants?  In the World Wars whole ships filled with people in the Navy were killed at once.  The United States built Liberty Ships, shitty, low-quality, high-volume pigs that planners assume would be sunk in vast quantities.  There were no illusions. In fact, I've read that if you were in one of the countries involved in the European theater, it wasn't a bad idea to be in the ground forces because there all the civilians were getting vaporized, blown to bits, and incinerated too. Of course, if we went to war with Russia then a majority of officers flying an F-22 would not come back.  All of them flying a JSF-35 (is it in service?) would be dead.  Possibly all the Air Force guys at bases where they're launching F-22's would be bombed and strafed after all the F-22's had been blown out of the sky.  Maybe the infantry guys would get together with the Russian guys and watch the mess play out above.  "How long did yours go to college?  Ours are there for four years." And the Navy at war with Russia... everyone on those aircraft carriers would be a bit more nervous than when it's the peasant opposing force. So: Peasant enemy, combat MOS infantry and Marines.  Second world enemy, Navy sailors and officers alike and Air Force officers. Disclaimer: I know, we're not really fighting peasants.  We're just weaving in and out of peasants where the bad guys are hiding, dressed as peasants.  I mean no offense by pointing out the difference between a peasant army and a big army that is wearing matching costumes. 21.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Deborah Gahm , Mil spouse for over 20 years Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 771 answers and 1.1m answer views I have to agree with Gary Leverich .  You are more likely to die due to accidents (including drunk driving) than combat. According to the latest statistics I could find: In 2009, there were 1,519 active duty deaths.  The highest percentage of those deaths were due to accidents, 28.5 per 100,000.  They do not differentiate between alcohol related accidents and normal accidents.  21.5/100,000 were due to hostile actions. There were about 1.6 million active duty members that year. For comparison, an average of 1,825 college students die each year from only alcohol related incidents alone. Active Duty Military Death Rates Per 100,000 Serving National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) 103.2k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Allen Inks , former Electrician's Mate First Class - EM1 (SS) at United States Navy (1972-1980) Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.5m answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? EDIT: The question changed; it originally was asking about survival chances in various military branches if “war broke out in the US”. I’ve not got enough time to change the answer to fit the new question. Okay, “War broke out in the US” is kind of vague. Do you mean A) civil war , for example, another civil war between Republicans and Democrats? Do you mean B) war with a foreign power inside the US, as in Canada and Mexico go in cahoots to attack and invade the US? Or do you mean C) nuclear war, as in one of the Kims fulfills the dynasty’s self-destructive tendencies, and launches several nuclear missiles at the US, which in turn, turns that failing country into a nice pristine glass parking lot for KIA and Hyundai factory overflow - which in turns results in some further nuclear missile strikes against the US from another country…who shall remain nameless? Note that I am assuming that option A is non-nuclear - though sometimes from the rhetoric from the far right and the far left, I’m not sure. I wish everyone would just wise up, vote Libertarian, and leave the Democratic and Republican parties on the ash heaps of history, but … I digress. A) In the case of a civil war, I will assume that the main purpose of the Republican and Democratic Navies will be to blockade the coasts of the land held by the other side, and to break the Naval blockades of the other side. I expect that the naval nuclear weapon assets controlled by each side will be sent to far-flung bases to wait out the war, and that we will be smart enough (or at least military leaders will be… I can’t vouch for ANY of the politicians) to not target things like nuclear weapons storage facilities, Minuteman missile silos, or nuclear power plants. The Air Force, Army and Marines will likely be highly involved. Likewise, Coast Guard highly involved doing blockade work (but lacking subs or significant anti-submarine capability, will mostly be targets for submarines). Best bet for survival: Navy. B) In the case of invasion by the frozen Canadians and the highly motivated Mexicans (NOTE TONGUE FIRMLY IN CHEEK - this is hypothetical and I’m just teasing our friends across the borders - actually, I know of at least 4 Canadians who are partially defrosted.) Again, I would expect the Army and Marines to be highly involved in repulsing those dastardly foes from our hallowed soil. Lots of bullets flying on all three sides… The Air Force should be flying tactical support for our ground troops… but by this time will probably have retired the A-10 (not sexy enough a mission for the Generals), so they will be flying F-35s and F-22’s to gain air superiority, and finding out that the F-35 makes a shitty replacement for an A-10. Hopefully, the Marines will have plenty of their planned V-22 Osprey gunship variants to augment Army helicopter crews to support the ground pounders. The Air Force will also be using B-52s that are on Medicare and collecting Social Security to support the troops using smart bombs, and using B2’s to bomb Ottawa, Mexico City, and other strategic location… but sparing important cultural sites like Senor Frog’s in Los Cabos. The Coast Guard….guarding the coasts to prevent opening a third or fourth front…likely, not too too involved. Maybe some riverine warfare. Navy…. using aircraft carriers to assist our North American Free Trade partners that they really want to go back home, or there won’t be a home to go back to. Best bet for survival: Coast Guard… followed by Navy. C) Multiple Exchange Massive Nuclear war: Substantially everybody dies. Best bet for being amongst the last to die: Submarine crew (Navy) or Minute Man Missile launch officers (Air Force). My best guess would be the Navy would be the last to go… more mobility to avoid fallout (authority for this “guess” - “On the Beach” (book or movie)). My advice re nuclear weapons sounds just like Nancy Reagan’s advice on drugs, “Just Say No”. Funny coming from a guy who spent 4 years living amongst 16 thermonuclear tipped SLBMs, doing his part to make sure my sub was ready when the call came, right? Nope… not funny. 27.9k Views · View Upvoters   Riccardo P , studied at University of Zurich Answered May 25, 2017 Eric Tang answered this question and got a lot of upvotes. He wrote: “[…] if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. […]” Really man??? Eric, I really have nothing personally against you or anyone else that wrote something similar here, but honestly, this is one of the most misleading statements I ever heard/read. Please STOP fooling young people with this kind of statements. It highly suggest to enroll in Military because you may apparently live longer! But this is very obviously big b#$@=%÷! To enroll in Military means (1.) to become a killer and (2.) to be exposed to a much higher probability to die young if you are sent to a war zone. How much higher the probability is, is less important in my opinion. But it certainly is higher if you “play around” with arms. I mean, even the government tells you not to travel in war zones . Why? Because it is dangerous. You could die. Higher risk to die. I would really not trust any statistics that suggest that the probability to die is lower if you enroll yourself in Military. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Gary Leverich , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout · Author has 472 answers and 2.9m answer views Combat is of course risky.  But most of the military never sees actual combat, they serve in support roles.  Even support roles carry their own level of risk.  Advanced weaponry is designed to take out support functions.  So working on an airfield well away from actual combat still carries a level of risk.  Other than combat, the highest cause of death in the military (all branches) is alcohol.  I was stationed with the 101st Airborne Division.  That division has a sign at the front of the base (at least used to) counting the days since the last alcohol related traffic death.  If we made it 101 days, we would get a day off.  We rarely made it 101 days. In 15 years of service, including 6 years in the Marine Corps with 2 combat deployments, and 9 in the Army with one peacekeeping mission, I lost 1 soldier.  That's because he wrapped his car around a tree after a weekend binge. 44.9k Views · View Upvoters   Daniel Kearns , former Paratrooper 82nd Airborne at U.S. Army Answered Mar 25, 2013 · Author has 1k answers and 4.8m answer views Generally, it matters not which branch you pick. What matters is what job you pick in that branch. Known as an MOS (Military Occupation Specialty), some are much more dangerous than others. For example, 11B Infantry is an MOS in the US Army that would be considered much more dangerous than say 36B Financial Management Technician.  There would be very few, (read: no), instances where a 36B might see combat. In todays US Army, virtually every Regular Army 11B will see some variation of combat at some point. Every US Military Branch has jobs known as Combat Arms.  These jobs will always be more dangerous than Support jobs. 36k Views · View Upvoters   Clell Harmon , Retired USN. Career SSBN Sailor Answered Jul 6, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout and Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 817 answers and 2.4m answer views In my experience, the leading cause of death among service members, is being stupid. Young men, no matter how intelligent they are, are prone to being stupid.  The proximity of other young men amplifies stupidity. Youtube is proof of this, but it existed long before anyone thought about putting videos on the internet. Take poorly maintained cars, an idiot behind the wheel looking to impress his passengers, lubricate with a bit of alcohol and you get dead people. I was in the Navy for more than 20 years. In my time in service, I buried five of my shipmates because of auto accidents.  None to combat, one to catestrophic equipment failure on a Submarine, two to drowning (one 'on duty' and one from being stupidly drunk and finding a rip current), and one to an undiagnosed aneurysm that burst when we were underway. 22.5k Views · View Upvoters   Rachel Bolyard , World traveler, appreciator of well built things Answered May 5, 2017 · Author has 260 answers and 199.2k answer views Your chances of dying in an auto accident are like 2000x higher than dying in any modern combat scenario. You're literally safer in a war zone than driving yourself out for dinner tonight. 30k people die per year in the US driving and 14 soldiers died in combat in 2016. Most jobs in the military, even if you're in a combat zone, don't involve shooting. You may end up with some convoy duty, which is by far the most risky thing to do, because a) it's driving and military vehicles are top heavy, rolling over and killing their operators routinely in training or combat, and b) convoys are symbols of power and occupation therefore insurgents like to target them. Training fatalities in the armed forces are in the hundreds per year per force. The Navy is probably the most dangerous because they have the most machinery and moving parts. Still though, from the stats, you're still safer serving than driving… 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jatavius Williams , Been an United States Army Drill Sergeant For 13yrs Now. Answered Apr 6, 2016 Son there are NO CHANCES in the art of fighting for your country. Each branch is fighting forr the same purpose and that purpose is most likely to fight for freedom. If you get shot were going to call "Medic!,Medic!" If the Medic is down "Carl! Carl! Get On The Radio" If that Happens Thats your Ass son. 7k Views · View Upvoters   Luke Han , Student Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 147 answers and 272.6k answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? The Coast Guard operates under the U.S Department of Homeland Security during peacetime, but can be transferred to the U.S Department of the Navy by Congress or the President. But it is technically part of the military. The Coast Guard would probably be your best bet. In World War II, 241,093 people served in the Coast Guard. Out of the 241,093 people that served, 574 died in action. That’s literally a 0.2% death rate, almost non-existent. However, if we don’t consider the Coast Guard as part of the military, Air Force and Navy would probably be your best bet, especially the Air Force. 10.7k Views · View Upvoters   Christopher Sullivan , works at U.S. Army Answered Jan 25, 2016 · Author has 293 answers and 87.2k answer views It depends on your MOS and where you are deployed to. Then there is the unit to consider, if you have tools for leadership and your unit is completely ate up, chances are high even if you're in a relatively quiet area. If you're unit is on point, then you're chances of survival are pretty high even if you're hell so to say. 8.8k Views · View Upvoters   Gordon Wilson , studied at Florida Southern College Answered May 22, 2015 If you are not alright with risking your life do not go into the military.  No matter what job you do there is danger.  You can die in training... happens all the time.  My father was a pilot and lost a couple friends just in training exercises (faulty equipment, communication errors, etc)  All of the services may be at risk at some point.  So if you are not prepared for the danger of being in the armed forces I would not suggest it.  I would say your best bet would be to be a doctor but even then the base you are stationed at if during time of war could be bombed.  I know a buddy from high school who died in an accident during an Army training exercise.  I think the vehicle flipped or something.  So yeah you could die at anytime if you're in the armed forces.  That is part of the job description.. you might die. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters   Ashleigh Jennings Answered Mar 16, 2013 well, i suppose its half luck half ability. if you were to join the army, you could be put anywhere, meaning that you could be dropped in a high combat area, where you are more likely to be hit. if you were to join the air force, you could be sitting at a desk finding targets, or in a plane potentially getting shot at. in the navy the boat could sink, and as a marine the odds of you dying anywhere is quite high... hope this helps. 6.5k Views · View Upvoters   Eliel Wu Answered Jan 20, 2016 Stats says you guys are wrong, the most dangerous branch to be in is the U.S Army. U.S Army 4,358 12-18 month deployments 3 month stand down and redeploys marines 1,394 6-7 month deployments 6 month stand down and redeploys The U.S Army has a large number of soldiers deployed in theater but only a small percentage in combat, the large number are none combat oriented whose job is to keep most of the bases running regardless of branch. If you want the hard and tough missions where your life is at risk the highest than join the Army. If you are looking for glory based on your branch, uniform appearance and what boot camp was like than the marines is for you. M M 7.8k Views · View Upvoters   Asa Waters , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Jul 21, 2015 http://www.nytimes.com/interacti... Army has the most deaths, basically 3 of every 5 people killed in combat is army, followed by Marines, navy and air force. In over 10 years of combat there's about 2000 deaths as of this article... Odds of dying are slim regardless. 943 Views   Jervis Fitzroy , lives in Northern Ireland Answered Feb 16, 2017 · Author has 988 answers and 196k answer views If you’re really bothered about it join the Chaplain’s Department. At least you’ll be well connected if you become one of the small number of Padres who have been killed in combat. 541 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at U.S. Army Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 155 answers and 119.6k answer views Depends on the nature of the war and where it's fought as well as against who. A ground war into China would not bode well for the Infantry and other guys on the ground however that's a total different proposition if you're asking us to take down some African Warlord. Same goes for air infiltrating Russian air Defence system would be a much greater undertaking then performing the same Mission in Africa. So it's all about what type of War being fought at that moment the capabilities of the enemy and the different Specialties that are most affected when adding that up. 556 Views · Answer requested by  Raulon Van Tassell   Stefan Johansson Answered Aug 26, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.6k answer views If you're worried of death,don't join the military. 521 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? How do I choose between the four branches of the US armed forces? Is ROTC considered a branch of the armed forces? Why do all branches of the United States Armed Forces have snipers? What is the safest major branch of the US armed forces? What branch of the U.S. Armed forces gets deployed most often? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Infantry  U.S. Army  Military What are the chances of me dying by joining the army infantry in the current war climate? I’m considering the 3 year contract. Update Cancel Answer Wiki 9 Answers   Victor Egorov , former Fort G Meade at U.S. Army Answered Oct 24, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies and  MIke Gentile , former Veteran  at U.S. Army (1988-1992) · Author has 596 answers and 807.4k answer views Your chances of becoming a casualty are quite low. I would not agree with with some of the other answers here and claims that “you have a higher chance to die in car crash” - this simply is not true. -So 3 year contract. -Infantry -Situation similar to last decade and a half of Iraq/Afghanistan proportions, in short an insurgency war. Off the bat, in three year congract you should only have enough time to train, get to your unit, deploy one time( 12 months) I’m using approximate numbers as I recall these to be during my time in the service. please find it within yourself to not argue or correct me on every number I chose to use for this approximation. For a war time statistic of active combat action and hostility we could take a situation that I recall being off and on a norm 2005 -2012. So among a force of 100,000 US military Service members deployed 50 are KIA a month. Some months have been better some have been worse. A low 20/30-for a slow month, while on a bad month 100+ ) In addition each month could have 100 more experience loss of limb, severe burns, loss of cognitive function/brain damage, spinal cord injury, complete loss of eye sight… life changing injuries. Plus another 200 service members are wounded to various lesser degrees. These injuries and deaths mainly distributed among combat arms soldiers. Infantry, light mechonised, MPs, combat engineers( route clearance) EOD, JSOC units. Realistically about 30,000- 40,000 out of total troop strength would sponge up most of the casualties and injuries. Let’s say 2/3s of it. So out of 100,000 with focus on 30,000 that have spent a year in combat zone as combat arms soldiers during war time mission 50*(2/3)*12 = 400 would be KIAs 100*(2/3)*12 =800 gravely injured 200*(2/3)*12=1600 non life changing injury( gunshot, concussion, loss of fingers,partial eyesight) While the other 1/3 of deaths and injuries will distribute among cooks, supply, air assets, medics, admin, engineers, mechanics, and on. So, just to ballpark on a single 3 year contract with a 12 month deployment into an active combat zone as we have witnessed over last decade and a half: You have about 1- 1,2% chance of loosing your life. 2–3% chance of being gravely injured. 4–7% of being wounded. So it’s a little above national highway injury statistic but it’s not terribly bad either. All and all your chances of getting “fucked up bad” are below 5% Getting “Hurt” are below 7% On back end, I’d recommend looking up monthly stats for suicides among US combat veterans… it’s somewhat high and troubling. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? Ask New Question   Matt Blackshaw , Professional Dog Walker Answered Nov 1, 2017 If you join any of the Armed forces regular or reserve you should make a conscious decision that your commitment will place you in dangerous situations. Combat arms Corps and Infantry in particular are some of the most dangerous trades to be employed in. As a potential candidate for any service you must give serious consideration that your unit and yourself WILL be deployed and you WILL be placed in dangerous situations in training and on operations. Army’s fight wars and wars involve killing the enemy, It's a two sided thing so if you are trying to defeat the enemy the enemy will be trying to defeat you by any means possible including killing you. Its good that you ask this question because it means you are thinking of the consequences of your decision to join the Military and FIGHT. War, Killing, Catastrophic injuries, Suffering and the psychological effects of being exposed to these elements are not subjects recruiters like to embellish during the recruitment process. 2.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Jonathan Keiler , Army veteran Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by  Joe Francis , Sergeant in Marine Corps, Officer in US Army, 26 years service · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.8m answer views Joining the Army infantry usually does not cause death. If it did, they would have a hard time maintaining any units at all. The risks of just dropping dead after you join, since you generally have to be young and fit to get in the Army infantry, are also extremely low. In the current climate, the risks of an infantryman being killed in an accident or in combat, are also pretty low. However, that is always subject to change. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Danny Perez , former Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic at U.S. Army (2013-2015) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies · Author has 178 answers and 24.8k answer views IF you get deployed to a combat zone then your chances are just as any. I can’t speak for Infantry. I was a mechanic, a POG. Lol. What I can tell you is that it is a lot different now than it was when the heat of the war had just started. My suggestion, as a POG, lol, join a POG MOS. If you score well enough in your ASVAB you can get more jobs available to you. Just a thought. No soldier is ever safe in a combat zone. There’s always indirect fire coming into the bases no matter how much of a fortified position we have built. 711 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? promoted  by LendingTree Veterans could receive up to $42,000 with these VA benefits. Many American veterans are missing out on benefits that could save them thousands. Learn More at lendingtree.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Stefan Johansson Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.6k answer views Dude,if you join the military,you also agree to risk your health and life if necessary. Being a soldier is not just a job,it’s also the pride of serving your country,and if needed die for it. If you’re not mentally prepared for that,stay out of the military forces,go drive a school bus instead…. 501 Views · View Upvoters   Mike Moffatt , Retd. Grandmaster (Military Order) Knights Templar (1988-present) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 265.7k answer views You’ve got more of a chance being injured in a car accident, or being ridden in to by a cyclist than being killed in action. If you constantly worry about dying you’ll never do anything worthwhile in this life. 803 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   John Phillips , worked at U.S. Army Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 1k answers and 574.9k answer views 100% What ever your focus is, is your target. Death finds those that seek it. I do not want anyone dragging death to the battle. I want them to fight, and claw, and scream, kick, gouge, punch, whatever it takes. I want life. You bring that bastard with you, the Drills will see it. You will not make it through training. They will kick your narrow ass, chicken shit, death dragging self out. No one, and hear this carefully, no one will tolerate the talk of death. Death is always close. In battle, and in training, he is fed enough. The gates of Hell and Heaven are a damn freeway because of the wars. I have a daughter that has never seen peace. And now I answer a person about death. I hope, have never seen death. If so, then you understand all of this. 552 Views · View Upvoters   Yash Mor , studied at Rashtriya Military School - Bangalore (1981) Answered Oct 22, 2017 · Author has 191 answers and 35.2k answer views You may have higher chances of dying in road accident or due to a natural or man made catastrophe. Please don't even plan to join the Indian Army as it may not select people with negative attitude in life. 511 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Prajakta , B.com Accounting and Taxation & Financial Markets, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar (2015) Answered Oct 22, 2017 You are already dead considering what you’ve asked. But anyways, don’t consider joining it. Army wouldn’t need you. 412 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Can you get into the infantry in your army contract? Can Egyptian women join the Egyptian Army infantry? If not, then what unit can they join? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units in Germany? What are the chances I would see combat if I joined the army infantry in 2018? Are we going to enter into World War 3 in 2017? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Armies (non-specific)  Indian Army  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of dying in the Army? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers   Krishna Kumar , Right Back at Wishwa Kings Football Club (2017-present) Answered Apr 13, 2017 The moment you become the part of India Army, you are dead. You are reincarnated and are about to embark on a new and breath taking journey. You are no longer the same person you were earlier, you are a changed peron with plethora of responsibilities on your shoulders. You are some of the finest and elite men and women of the country. Does it matter “ chances of dying in Army” you will eventually die one day, but it's good to sacrifice your life for millions of people. Martyrdom is not the end, it is the beginning! Jai Hind!! 739 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below What are the chances of you dying in the army or navy? How many people die in the army? What is the chance of dying today? What are the chances of dying in the Marines? What are my chances of dying while in the Navy? Ask New Question   Jyoti Prakash Nayak , I am a defense aspirant and have knowledge about wars. Answered Apr 16, 2017 · Author has 60 answers and 84.2k answer views A person has to die one day or another, irrespective of that he joins the Army or not. As said by our father of constitution, Dr. BR Ambedkar, “ Life should be great, it is not necessary to be long” And believe me, if you join the Army, I am sure that before dying, you must have done something great for the nation before giving your supreme sacrifice. Everyone has to die someday, but you have to decide that if you want to die without fulfilling your purpose of birth or after completing your duty. JAI HIND ! 801 Views · View Upvoters   Rishabh Kashyap , B.E. Indian Army & Jobs and Careers (2016) Answered Apr 6, 2017 I really dont get what you want to know by asking such question. I mean, Are you safe in your home ? No So whats the point of asking such question? Also MARK MY WORDS “ Those who have willing to join army doesnt think that they will die. The pride of serving the nation makes one a strong person, not everyone have guts to join army.” P. S. We all will die someday, so thats not the question i think. 350 Views · View Upvoters   Neha Rajpoot , Marketing employee Answered Apr 9, 2017 You know you have to die one day, yet you live your life. You don't even. Know what will happen to you the next day. Will you get hit by a truck? Will you have. Heart attack or anything of that sort! Still you keep doing your thing right? The Indian Army knows their job and for them the chances of getting hit by a bullet, bomb, grenade or any other blast are higher than any other individual. But they are doing their job irrespective of the fact that people ask senseless questions about them dying than to praise them ! 395 Views · View Upvoters   Gary Doyle , 15 years regular and reserve in the British Army Answered Apr 5, 2017 · Author has 770 answers and 930.8k answer views Add others have said, young males are less likely to die in the military than they are on active service. In Iraq, all those guys in bases and getting shot at lowered the number if deaths in total compared to if they had been back in Georgia drinkin’ and drivin’ or as reservists as travelling salesmen. I don't have access to the exact Iraq statistics but I saw them from twenty years ago and Operarional Tours save lives! 265 Views Quora User , Assistant Punjab Border Area Development Officer at Government of India Answered Apr 5, 2017 100% Same as for those who are not in the Army. You join Army or not, you are not going to come out of life, alive. Probability wise, you're more likely to die in a road accident or crime or by heart attacks than by joining most of the branches of Army. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters   Subhashis Ghosh , Electrical Engineer Answered Apr 5, 2017 · Author has 52 answers and 29.5k answer views Nobody dies in the army,he is martyred only and becomes immortal..soldiers can't die. Civilian dies….. 104 Views Related Questions How likely is it to die in the army? What are the chances of dying in surgery? What is the chance of dying from a stroke? How can I die without pain? What are the chances of dying this year? What are my chances in the Indian Army? What are the chances of dying from being stabbed once? What are the chances of dying being a Royal Marine? What are the chances of you dying in the USAF? How do you think you’ll die? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the chances of you dying in the army or navy? How many people die in the army? What is the chance of dying today? What are the chances of dying in the Marines? What are my chances of dying while in the Navy? How likely is it to die in the army? What are the chances of dying in surgery? What is the chance of dying from a stroke? How can I die without pain? What are the chances of dying this year? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Risk Management  Risk and Risks  Warfare  Death and Dying  Military History and Wars What is the true risk of being killed in war? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 10 Answers   Roland Bartetzko , former German Army, Croatian Defense Council, Kosovo Liberation Army Updated May 8, 2017 · Author has 676 answers and 33m answer views Statistics and absolute numbers can’t determine the “true risk” of an individual to be killed in a war. You can fight in a war with relatively few casualties on your side (like the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan) and still get killed. On the other hand, your whole unit might be wiped out in the bloodiest of conflicts and you are the only survivor. Important “relative”, non quantifiable risk factors are: Type of war: In a Guerrilla campaign, the insurgents usually have higher losses than the counterinsurgency forces. At least in the beginning, the government forces are stronger than their opponents. This is why you start a guerrilla campaign: you don’t have enough forces for a conventional war! Usually, a counterinsurgent force also has the technical superiority over the Guerrilla which is another factor to explain their low(er) casualty numbers. The Kosovo Liberation Army, for example, lost 18.7 % of its soldiers on the battlefield (17,500 soldiers, 3269 killed), while their enemy, the Serbian counterinsurgency forces, only lost 1.43 % of theirs (105,000 soldiers, 1500 killed). [1] In conventional wars, the casualty numbers between the different militaries involved are usually closer together and it doesn’t even matter which side has lost and which one has won the war: During Operation Barbarossa in WWII, the Soviets lost around 34 % of their soldiers (2.9 million soldiers, 1 million killed) fighting against the Germans, while the Germans with their Allies lost 26% of their soldiers (3.8 million soldiers, 1 million killed) on the Eastern front. [2] Tactics: Surprisingly, many combat soldiers do not die in firefights with the enemy, but in other combat related activities on the battlefield. A good example is the number of Navy SEALs and personal attached to them that got killed in Afghanistan: From the 55 Navy Seals killed in Afghanistan [3] , only 12 soldiers (or 21%) were killed through combat related injuries, but many more (33 soldiers or 78%) lost their lives for a number of very different reasons: 1 suicide 1 drowned in a river during a combat operation 3 died through IED’s, mines or non specified explosions 16 were helicopter crash victims 22 died when their CH-47 helicopter was shot down by an enemy RPG We can see that most soldiers died while they were transported in helicopters (38 SEALs or 69%). During the same time, only three SEALs were killed while travelling in jeeps or Armored Personnel Carriers. In war, tactics are often changed, because of the high number of casualties they “produce”. Especially important are “defensive tactics” like anti sniper tactics which, if properly applied, can save a lot of lives. Intelligence: To have correct and actionable intelligence available on the battlefield does not only make it easier to detect and kill the enemy, but also helps to avoid dangerous situations for your own troops, like ambushes, planned enemy attacks etc. Type of unit: If you are infantry, you can expect that your risk to get killed is higher than that of an artillery or logistics soldier, but not in every conflict. In many wars and especially in counterinsurgency campaigns there might be an equal number of killed soldiers in support units and combat troops. This can be explained with the character of the conflict. A Guerrilla army attacks where the enemy is weakest and a supply transport makes a much easier target than a well protected armored column near the frontline. Special forces, Quick Reaction forces, but also volunteer units have the highest casualty rates. This is due to the dangerous character of their assignments, but also because more “courage and engagement” is expected from them than from other units. Foreign volunteers on the frontline in Bosnia Material: Armored cars, Mine resistant vehicles, body armor, but also mine detecting equipment, ground radars and night vision equipment help keeping casualty numbers low. As I already mentioned, technical superiority also helps to reduce the number of your losses. Training: A well trained soldier has a higher chance to survive on the battlefield. A trained and well coordinated unit is more effective and will suffer fewer losses. Especially important in this regard is specialized pre-deployment training and training in the deployment zones. The better and longer the training, the lower the number of casualties. Experience: In combat the first weeks are the most dangerous. Even with the best training and preparation, there are things that can be learned only “on the job”. After a while, the soldiers become familiar with the battlefield and with their enemy and start to develop instincts that will help them to make the right decisions. Leadership: Military leaders always have to balance between their mission objective and the risk for their soldiers. This can vary, even in the same battalion or company. If you are too careful, you will never reach your objective, but on the other hand who dares does not always win. During World War II, many German Army and Waffen SS units were led by officers who were hungry for a medal and had little consideration for their own lives and the lives of their soldiers. As a result they sustained exorbitantly high losses which in the end contributed to Germany losing the war. Medical system: Often forgotten, the medics are the ones who decide between a gravestone or a purple heart. A good and effective medical system does not only boost morale but saves lives. This is maybe the single most important reason why the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan have sustained relatively few deadly losses. Individual character: A careful soldier has better chances to survive. There are many individual and group character traits that influence casualty numbers. To name just a few: Motivation: fanatics usually risk more and are therefore more prone to get wounded or killed. Emotions: hate for the enemy and love for your country will get you killed equally quickly. Personal beliefs: a soldier who believes that the cause for the war is right is more ready to risk his life than someone who is just”doing his job”. Intelligence: to be able to properly analyze a tactical situation is a big advantage and might save lives. National character and culture: Some nations are more risk averse than others. Usually Western countries value the life of an individual more than oriental societies. During the Croatian War of Independence, foreign volunteers from different nations had different casualty rates [4] , which could be explained, although not exclusively, by their national character: Hungary: 33 volunteers, 2 killed, 6 %Killed in Action Australia:15 volunteers, 1 killed, 6.7% Killed in Action The Netherlands: 27 volunteers, 7.4% Killed in Action Ireland: 10 volunteers, 1 killed, 10.0% Killed in Action England: 139 volunteers , 15 killed, 10.8 % Killed in Action France: 67 volunteers, 8 killed, 11.9 %Killed in Action United States, 18 volunteers, 3 killed, 16.7% Killed in Action Austria 10 volunteers, 2 killed, 20% Killed in Action Germany: 53 volunteers 14 killed, 26.4 % Killed in Action Although the samples are too small to have any scientific value, they show that soldiers in the same army and conflict, with the same tactics and training, still have very different probabilities to get killed. If combat losses are acceptable or not depends on the political system. A dictatorship can sacrifice a lot more soldiers before having to deal with domestic unrest than a democracy does. In other words: if you fight for a regime, your chances to get killed are higher. Luck: Many of the above mentioned factors are out of an individual’s control. You get drafted, don’t get the appropriate training and will be sent to war. Your officers are useless and your equipment old and of low quality. There isn’t much you can do. Often, an individual that volunteers for a non combat related military occupation has better chances to stay alive than a draftee. If the conflict continues for a long time however, these soldiers will also be sent to the frontlines and die. In the end, each individual’s risk of being killed in combat is the product of all the above mentioned factors and many more. If you are in a wartime military, as a volunteer or draftee, logistics or special forces, there is always the risk to get killed. You can lower your own personal risk by making the right decisions, but after that it’s out of your hands and it often comes down to sheer luck. Footnotes [1] ZYRTARE: Kjo është lista finale e dëshmorëve, invalidëve dhe veteranëve në gjithë Kosovën  - Aktuale - Zeri [2] Operation Barbarossa - Wikipedia [3] Our Fallen Heroes - Navy SEAL Foundation [4] 481 foreign volunteers from 35 countries defended Croatia in 1991-1995 23.8k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Ask New Question   Jon Davis , Military and Cultural Historian, Veteran of US Military Updated Aug 5, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views The risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11 estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660 which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we see that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see that total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. These figures do not account for job specialty, which will skew heavily towards infantry type units. I don't have data for this, but as the previous statistics probably surprised many, so will those of the infantry when they become available. Stats from: War in Afghanistan (2001–present) - 2,173 US KIA, 23,500 Coalition WIA (Majority US) Iraq War - 4,487 US KIA, 32,226 US WIA Estimations based on United States Department of Defense Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 29.2k Views · View Upvoters   Thomas Snerdley , No one is promised tomorrow. TODAY is the day. Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 1.7k answers and 8.6m answer views Slight digression: First of all, there is no War on Terror.  Terror is a tactic, not an actual enemy so by definition there is no way to declare war on it much less prevail.  Only Bush 43 and his neo-conservative chicken hawk apologizers are stupid enough to promulgate such a nonsense phrase.  How on earth did we survive 8 years of misrule by this coterie of idiots? To answer your question: We can make war less risky by better understanding the psychology and sociology of ourselves first, and then those of our "adversaries".  In the vast majority of instances we will find that there is no actual reason for hostility (the emotion) or hostilities (the action) . At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by making war unnecessary . If a conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by taking a great deal of time and effort to understand exactly what effects we wish to achieve and developing a method of achieving those effects that does not include violence.  Many conflicts have been resolved through negotiation, sanctions, embargoes, spycraft and the threat of force without actually engaging in organized violence. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by resolving the situation without violence. If a violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by enabling it to be fought by the smallest number of American participants likely to achieve our goals.  In practical terms this means attempting to have the people directly involved in that country (e.g., mujaheddin in Afghanistan, rebels in Syria) fight it themselves.  If necessary, America could support them by deploying small teams of special forces personnel supported by assets operating in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  In Afghanistan, when we operated with small teams of special forces troops organizing and assisting local fighters we experienced great success.  When we attempted to force the issue with huge, unwieldy Army and Marine units, we got bogged down and lost. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by reducing the number of American lives put in jeopardy to fight in a conflict. If a large scale violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by ensuring full-spectrum dominance in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  Again, commitment of large-scale ground forces is almost always counterproductive in general and is always counterproductive to the specific goal of making war less risky. Does this answer the question? " To subdue the enemy without fighting ... this is the acme of skill ."  -- Sun Tzu 3.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Colin D. Welch , I have read a lot about military history Answered Sep 24, 2012 · Author has 656 answers and 484.3k answer views I spoke with a guy who works for intelligence, he told me that a lot more positions in the Military are desk jobs. Logistics, Intelligence, operations, etc. He said that he never expected to use powerpoint this much. I would say that joining the army isn't a risk per se, its whether you're in a combat unit that it starts getting risky. 1.3k Views   Jon Mixon , Studied military actions from the Punic Wars to South Waziristan Updated Dec 4, 2012 · Author has 19.3k answers and 89.8m answer views The overwhelming majority of combatants in any war survive the conflict.  Having said that:you can't make war "less risky." Risk will always exist for both side although the side with greater technology and with better planning and logistics will almost always prevail. The only ways which might make warfare somewhat "safer" (itself a subjective term) are likely: For the stronger side to completely crush the opposing side as quickly and as violently as possible before the opponents can inflict significant casualties. Not to fight a war in the first place. 3.7k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Hooah means everything but no Updated Nov 17, 2011 · Author has 3.7k answers and 5.1m answer views We have mechanized it to the extent our technology permits, and will further mechanize it as technology allows us to. We now use drones with pinpoint accuracy, guns that can shoot around a corner, robots that can get up close and check situations out, and I can only surmise what's on the drawing board. The problem with this mechanization is if war is fought by machines, there are no consequences and that would take away a deterrent. This is a video, produced by the New York Times, is a few years old about the Army of the future but is worth watching nonetheless. http://www.nytimes.com/packages/... 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , A reader of all things historical, from the ancient to the recent. Answered Jun 10, 2013 · Author has 247 answers and 299.3k answer views I think how one approaches this question depends largely on how we view 'losing one's life.' It is easy to quantify the damage done in terms of number of deceased.  While advances in battlefield medicine and military technology allow us to consistently remove soldiers from harm's way and successfully treat more severe injuries, there is a psychological and emotional toll that war takes on the human mind that is almost impossible to avoid. For instance, a recent NY Times piece reports on post-traumatic stress in drone pilots: Distance from Carnage Doesn't Prevent PTSD for Drone Pilots . Shane Smith from VICE also recently had some interesting comments on the true human costs of war: In summary, I think that there will always be improvement in how a military can preserve its human capital, but there will always leave scars in the minds and hearts of those who see its true nature. 3k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Jun 10, 2013 War is, by its nature, a breeding ground of unpredictable events. By which I mean that every statistic from yesterday's war _might_ be completely irrelevant in the next one, by many orders of magnitude. What is the true risk of humanity ending due to a nuclear winter ? The conditional probability is probably close to one, but what is the probability of an all out nuclear war ? How can a rational person even try to associate a realistic (meaning verifyable) number ? Create a million alternative Earths and measure how many blow themselves up ? It's a non-scientific question. 764 Views   Aaron Anderson , I am a recent graduate from King’s College London with a degree in Intelligence and International Security ... Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 55 answers and 87.8k answer views If the rules were the same for each side fighting in the wars - then maybe less risk. The discourse on war is how military commanders perceive wars ought to be fought. When opposing sides fight outside this framework things get messy. I think a recent example of increased risk is asymmetric warfare between a large state and say a non-state actor like an insurgency. One could use the mujahideen in Afghanistan during the 1980s and the Taliban as examples. I also don't think technological advances and state superiority means a victory- Soviets 1980s. My point is that when rules are established on how wars ought to be fought, standards and methods of operations are understood by each side.  Expectations of what the  adversary is planning may be predicted. Outside this framework it can be pretty messy. This may help to explain why the Obama administration has chosen drones to target insurgent and terrorist groups. As written in Wired for War the drones may provide ~ an asymmetric solution for an asymmetric problem. Of course, however, there's always risk. The fog of war is unavoidable, but managing it is possible I imagine. 1.7k Views   Richard Wagner , Master's Library Administrator (1972) Answered Feb 14, 2018 · Author has 352 answers and 21.8k answer views Over a long period it is less than leading a normal civilian life. A list of causes of death would show it being near the bottom. Of course there are periods of intense combat when it temporarily increases. For the period from 1950 to date it is probably less than auto accidents, numerous illnesses, etc. 71 Views Related Questions Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Is it true that war is inevitable? Is it true that mosquitoes have killed more humans than all the wars in history? Will the next World War be a civil war? Are wars legal or illegal, or can wars be neither? What principles would you be willing to go to war, risk your life and kill people? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Military History and Wars What are the chances a us soldier will bekilled or injured in afghanistan? Update Cancel ad by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 3 Answers   ABCDiamond , studied Financial Accounting & History at Grammar Schools Answered Feb 17, 2017 · Author has 5.5k answers and 1.2m answer views This is an old question, but it popped up for me, and I began looking before I saw the date. But the figures are: U.S. fatalities per year in Afghanistan according to Operation Iraqi Freedom 2001 - 7 2002 - 51 2003 - 43 2004 - 57 2005 - 125 2006 - 181 2007 - 226 2008 - 293 2009 - 510 2010 - 708 2011 - 560 2012 - 393 2013 - 154 2014 - 74 2015 - 27 2016 - 15 As of October 18th, 2016, there have been 2,386 U.S. military deaths in the War in Afghanistan. 1,834 of these deaths have been the result of hostile action. 20,049 American service members have also been wounded in action during the war. 91 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below Is the US government doing enough for the injured war soldiers and veterans in terms of medical help? Are US Marines considered soldiers? What difficulties did the US and Australian soldiers face in Vietnam? How would this impact the soldiers? What did Commonwealth soldiers think about US soldiers? What are differences in how soldiers in Vietnam fortified Fobs and how soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan fortify FoBs? Ask New Question   Mike Delms , Former infantry soldier, U.S. Army Answered Feb 17, 2013 Weird question. It depends which trade you are in, your mission, your platoon and what position you are within that platoon. Obviously combat arms trades like infantry and artillery have a higher chance for injury. Having a radio on your back will also increase your chance. Too many variables to give a percentage. However, all combat arms trades are fully aware that there is a serious risk of injury or death. 412 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Syracuse Online Business An online MBA for military members and veterans. Syracuse's online MBA offers GMAT waivers to military members and veterans. See if you qualify! Learn More at onlinebusiness.syr.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Dave Toms , Psych grad, humanist, and licensed shit disturber Answered Dec 2, 2012 · Author has 410 answers and 353.9k answer views The Pentagon has numbers, no doubt, but unfortunately I don't! (why not try under Access to Information?) In any war that lasts for a while, a particular soldier on either side has a high probability of being killed or injured! Only a modest percentage walk home on their own two feet! 224 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions What are the best troops of WW2? What did WWII soldiers fear? What did the US soldiers that died in Afghanistan and Iraq die for? Did the US win the war in Afghanistan? How are German WWII veterans treated today? Did soldiers avoid shooting at medics? Why did Indians not help the British during World War II? Did injured or sick soldiers in the Korean War go to Japan? Why do soldiers die? Why are US soldiers who fought in Vietnam so proud? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Is the US government doing enough for the injured war soldiers and veterans in terms of medical help? Are US Marines considered soldiers? What difficulties did the US and Australian soldiers face in Vietnam? How would this impact the soldiers? What did Commonwealth soldiers think about US soldiers? What are differences in how soldiers in Vietnam fortified Fobs and how soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan fortify FoBs? What are the best troops of WW2? What did WWII soldiers fear? What did the US soldiers that died in Afghanistan and Iraq die for? Did the US win the war in Afghanistan? How are German WWII veterans treated today? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Which Military branch should I join? | What is the best branch of the military to join?  - Duration: 15:16.  Kyle Gott  289,255 views     15:16               Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12      TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      Day in the Life of a Soldier: CAN I KEEP MY MILITARY GEAR?  - Duration: 10:07.  ARCHIEzzle  56,833 views     10:07      Military Food! A Day in the Life of a Soldier - Army Vlog 16  - Duration: 8:46.  ARCHIEzzle  115,261 views     8:46      WHAT NEW ARMY PRIVATES NEED TO KNOW! NEW SOLDIERS LISTEN UP!  - Duration: 9:09.  ARCHIEzzle  19,047 views     9:09      Best Military Branch? Which Military branch should I join?  - Duration: 7:20.  ARCHIEzzle  32,924 views     7:20      What to expect in Military Police school  - Duration: 12:52.  Logan Evans  49,111 views     12:52      How To Pass MEPS | What Do You Do There??  - Duration: 11:56.  Matt Ward  16,371 views     11:56      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      Psychiatry in the Military: The Hidden Enemy—Full Documentary  - Duration: 1:46:24.  CCHR Documentaries  98,138 views     1:46:24      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      Enlisting with a COLLEGE DEGREE?  - Duration: 9:42.  BullyJuice  23,222 views     9:42      How to survive Army OCS  - Duration: 12:15.  J-31 Fitness  4,786 views     12:15      TOP 5 HACKS & CHEATS TO PASS U.S. ARMY BASIC TRAINING! **HOW TO PASS BASIC TRAINING**  - Duration: 10:28.  ARCHIEzzle  86,615 views     10:28      How You Are Treated in Basic Training as a 30 something year old Part 1  - Duration: 10:01.  tru thought  15,885 views     10:01      WHAT TO EXPECT IN THE ARMY  - Duration: 7:21.  ARCHIEzzle  9,334 views     7:21     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Tired of ads?       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      US ARMY INFANTRY "GRUNT VS  POG"  - Duration: 6:51.  ARCHIEzzle  64,584 views     6:51      What to Bring to Basic Training and What to Buy When you Arrive!  - Duration: 12:36.  ARCHIEzzle  104,570 views     12:36      3 Things Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You  - Duration: 8:01.  Matt Ward  103,244 views     8:01      Explaining US Army Warrant Officer rank  - Duration: 8:16.  Christopher Chaos  113,953 views     8:16      BRAND NEW ARMY MEDIC 68W EXPECT FOR THE WORST!  - Duration: 9:56.  ARCHIEzzle  20,537 views     9:56     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...          The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design What Were a U.S. Soldier's Odds of Dying in Each War? Kyle VanHemert 3/02/11 11:00am Filed to: data point Filed to: data point data point wars Stats Warfare 154 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink Our perceptions of wars are pushed and pulled by myriad forces—their causes, their outcomes, their places in our national narrative, etc. But on the level of the individual, which was the deadliest? Nicholas Hobbes' Essential Militaria breaks down the stats for eleven historic conflicts: Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Indian Wars: 0.9 percent (1 in 106) • Mexican War: 2.2 percent (1 in 45) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) I'm not trying to fight in any war, but if you strapped me in a time machine and made me pick one, I guess I'd go with the Spanish-American War. As long as I don't have to be in Teddy Roosevelt's regiment. [ Geekosystem ] Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now You may also like Jalopnik Here&apos;s The Bugatti Chiron&apos;s Tacked-On American-Market Bumper Lumps Jason Torchinsky 4/12/17 2:28pm Deadspin Presenting The 2018 Name Of The Year Bracket Sam Gutelle 3/28/18 10:29am Gizmodo Just 53 People Used the App That Let Cambridge Analytica Swipe Data From Up to 311,127 Australians Matt Novak Today 10:25am Recent from Kyle VanHemert 2 28 30.9K You Don&apos;t Want to Live Inside This Perpetually Rainy House Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 7:00pm 1 4 4.4K Photofon Shows Just the Photos in Your Twitter Timeline Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 4:40pm 1 35 27.5K iWork for iPhone Kyle VanHemert 5/31/11 6:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.                ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of getting killed in the army?    I was thinking of joining the Army because stuff like that, plus Law enforcement such as being a cop, intrigue me.  what are the chances of getting killed? And what all can you do when you join?  thanks         Follow      11 answers  11    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Dallas Cowboys      Jeffrey Dean Morgan      Rosamund Pike      Real Madrid      Finn Balor      SUV Compact      Cindy Hyde-Smith      Nissan Rogue      Jimmy Kimmel      Car Insurance MO          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  I did the Math on this not too long ago before my 3rd deployment and I came up with .8% for one 12 month tour. However, this does not take into account that when I did this there were 100 soldiers a month dieing last month their were 5. Also if you are in a job that goes out of the wire every day your odds are much higher than the cook that makes sure chow is hot. Your odds of getting wounded are much higher though roughly 10 times that of dieing.  If you are really afraid of being injured please choose another job. I don't need another cowardly soldier that is ducking leaving the wire every time we have a mission, lord knows we already have plenty of them.      Source(s):  18 years in the Army    Quickspic  · 10 years ago       11  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment          Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                          Your odds of being killed as a male 18-24 are 200-300 hundred times higher in the USandA than as an Army or Marine member in Iraq AND Afghanistan combined. Even the NY Times agreed with this calculation.       jim  · 10 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         When you consider how many people there are in the Army and how many have been killed so far, I think you'll agree that you stand more of a chance of being killed in your every day life especially in larger cities.  I personally know many soldiers who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan that have been there two and three times and most have not even seen action while others had a lot of fun while in action but I have yet to meet one that regretted joining...Well except the ones that didn't make it through boot camp.       Source(s):  US Marines 76-77 Former law enforcement    JundaKell  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       I don't have exact stats, but I understand that some 4,000 military personnel have died in Iraq since it started over there.  That's an average of 800 per year.  I'm also given to understand that at any time, there are over 130,000 troops in Iraq.  On those numbers alone, your chance of dying in any year is about 6 out of a 1,000.  Or 994 chance out of 1,000 that you'll live.  Of course, those don't count every death, including accidents, sickness, and personnel who die from non-military action, such as driving on the highway back home, but those odds are about the same, whether you're Army or a civilian.  Considering the U.S. death toll EVERY year is 16,000 for murder, or that nearly 50,000 people die EACH year in traffic accidents, I'd say your odds of dying in the Army due to military duty is pretty marginal.       demos_jones  · 10 years ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Chances of being killed are small.  If you want to be a cop, join the Army and go with Military Police.  It will make it easier to become a cop if and when you get out of the military.       Jimmy Jazz  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment            Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         chances of getting killed hmm depends on where you're at, what mos you are, how ****** up your leadership is and how well you pay attention to your surroundings, soldiers die everyday, sometimes it seems like its a roll of the dice, now dont let that discourage you from doing what you want to do, research the mos that are in the army, and make an educated decision, dont make a half assed decision without all the knowledge you can get, and show up at a duty station with a poor attitude, thats what puts soldiers lives in danger       thedolphinflogger  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       u have a better chance of walking around detroit and dying... or even driving a car       Rafael T  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       if you are worried about dying for your country, you are much better off joining the coast guard or just remaining a civilian. as for the army, it will depends on how well you and the people next to you are trained.       Source(s):  USMC..oorah    Josh B  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     5  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Your chances of dying are better in a car than dying in battle. You will never regret service to your country.       Source(s):  Life member VFW    Plumber Rock  · 10 years ago      8  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     join the marines.   you wont regret it. my brother is a Marine, he left a kid, came back a man, came back a Marine  look at this picture, and seriously consider the USMC  http://www.stuff.hqubed.com/uploads/army%20vs%20marines.jpg       Anonymous  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     6  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    How to order contacts online?   Find the best luxury cars   Masters of marketing online   Need new business cards?              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    Chances of getting killed in army?        Chances of women getting killed in Army today?        Army officer chances of getting killed?       More questions       Are chances higher getting killed in America or in the Military ( Army)?        What is the chance of getting killed in the US army?          Answer Questions    Going through a tough time in life. After high school I didnt think everything would be so depressing. I cant find a job, should I join army?        Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?        Will WW3 soon starts in Syria ?        Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  8 answers      Should i go to the army?  11 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                          ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of dying in the Army?    I never really worried about dying if I were to join (I'm currently in Army ROTC), but I had this SCARY dream last night and now I'm scared as hell.  What are my chances to die in the Army if I were to be an Intel Officer as my MOS?  Is it easier to die here in the US like in a car crash?  Thanks   Update:  Thanks for the responses guys.  Yeah I guess the chance of dying in the USA isn't that much different.. Besides, I'd rather die engaging the enemy than in a car crash in Interstate 25.         Follow      13 answers  13    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Dallas Cowboys      Jeffrey Dean Morgan      Rosamund Pike      Real Madrid      Finn Balor      SUV Compact      Cindy Hyde-Smith      Nissan Rogue      Jimmy Kimmel      Car Insurance MO          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  Percentage wise you're more likely to die in a car accident or crime.  Intel officer is a great choice for lots of reasons.  The military is in a dangerous business to be sure, but the likelihood of death in America is pretty high too.  As for the number who have died in Iraq, keep in mind many would have died in that same time period with no war.  They would have died in off duty accidents, training accidents and suicide and I'm tired of hearing people say the suicide rates are higher now in the military.  That's total BS!!  We have lower incidents of suicide even though the age group 18-27 is one of the highest in society, because he teach prevention programs, intervention and track every suicide.  The military's rate is always lower than the civilian sector and lower during war.      Source(s):      Reformed  · 1 decade ago       4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   Only a fool would tell you that you would not die or get seriously hurt.  It is always a possibility and that is one of the reasons why those who undertake this kind of lifestyle deserve our utmost gratitude.  As an intel officer, I will tell you that there are fewer chances of you being in harms way than say an infantry officer.  It all really depends on what you do and where you find yourself.  Keep in mind that in this current war, there have been far fewer deaths for the number of troops we have over there than in any other war past.  In Vietnam alone we lost about 58,000 servicemen in just under a decade of fighting.  To date we've lost about 4,000 in nearly the same amount of time.  I am not trying to say that you will not die or that nothing will ever happen to you, but if you ever were to join the army and have the least probability of dying, now would be the time.  With our medical capabilities too, we are able to evacuate people from the Point of Injury or POI to the necessary level of care in record time.  What used to take hours if not days can take a matter of minutes.  Usually no more than an hour.  This is because of the incredible response times of our Medical Evacuation systems that can retrieve a wounded soldier from anywhere on the battlefield.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         All I have to say is prepare yourself mentally for combat no matter what your MOS is. Some intel guys (Marines) that I know of actually went out to on patrol, but most likely you would be in the COC, looking over you intel Soldiers and I would assume that you won't go to out on patrol as often as other Soldiers. You have a likelihood of dying a car accident than if you were an intel Officer. If the dream still bothers you, I suggest you talk to your CO in charge so this will not have a negative impact on you later on.       Source(s):  USMCR    ____________________________  · 1 decade ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Lets just say the odds are about even!  But if you are afraid of dying by serving in the Army, then the odds would have to go up!  Someone who is scared is going to be too cautious to be of much use, if you didn't realize that before, be aware of it now!  Many of those men who are serving now were in the reserves, many had no idea they were going to be sent into a war when they joined, some have been sent back several X's!  If you are scared then don't join the Army or Marines, join the Navy or Air force, they are somewhat safer.       geegee  · 1 decade ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Don't worrie about dying man. Life is for living. You are going to die one day. So do something you love. There is more to the army then just fighting and dying. You become apart of something bigger then you have ever seen. You are an American. You are the best of the best. Look in your history books. HOOAH!       armyharvey1821  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         there is actually a higher chance of you dying in detroit.im not kidding but also not that many people died in the military over the years we've been to. more people die in america than our soldiers do in the middle east.if you were worried about dying you should move to like wyoming the least populated state or North dakota       Three Dog  · 1 decade ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     There are over 2 million members in the US Military, 4,000 have died in a time of war in over a span of 5 years, you do the math. The chances aren't all that high, probably higher in Detroit or somewhere.       Anonymous  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Listen to your NCO's and try not to do anything..stupid.  You'll be fine, you'll probably be a fobbit anyway.       Hjaduk  · 1 decade ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       only 30% higher then if you lived in detroit....i'm being serious. it really depends upon your job, truck driver not so good, techincal much better       Untamed Rose  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Probably high especially because they keep sending the soldiers back over and over and over and over again. Suicide rate has climbed and ptsd is a sure bet when you come home. Think about you decision carefully and then do what you think is best.       suzy  · 1 decade ago      0  Thumbs up     9  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Need an electronic signature?   Looking for a new chandelier?   Portfolio Management Options   Interested in Life Alert?              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What is the chances of dying in the army?        Whats the chances of dying in the United States Army?        What are the chances of dying if I join the BRITISH army?       More questions       Chance of dying in the army?        What are the chances of dying in the army reserve?          Answer Questions    How long can your hair be in the army?        Can you cross rank from EOD to Diver? And if I wanted to retake the ASVAB while enlisted, can one retake it while in basic?        Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?        Going through a tough time in life. After high school I didnt think everything would be so depressing. I cant find a job, should I join army?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  8 answers      Should i go to the army?  11 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                                     Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service  If you're worried about the dangers of enlisting, you should think about how dangerous these alternatives are -- and how much less job security you might have.            Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )    Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM       America loves its military. The vitriol heaped on returning Vietnam veterans in the 1960s and 1970s -- most of whom had no choice in the matter of their deployment -- caused such a public backlash that most Americans swung hard from anger to hero worship, and our default reaction to military service has been hero worship ever since. And why shouldn't it be? After all, no other profession explicitly asks its workforce to make the ultimate sacrifice.   Source: User DVIDSHUB via Flickr.   However, just because military servicemen or servicewomen might someday be asked to die in service to their country doesn't mean that they will . In fact, modern military service isn't even America's deadliest job! There are certainly a number of serious factors to consider before joining the military, including the commitment to sign away at least four years of your life and the stress of essentially being on call 25 hours a day (that's not a typo) for your entire enlistment, but if the threat of death is your primary concern, you may want to dig into the realities of U.S. military casualties before making up your mind.  Can you keep the peace and keep your life? Make no mistake -- people can and do die during military service. The Defense Manpower Data Center, one of the Department of Defense's analytical groups, has recorded 48,834 military personnel deaths from 1980 to 2010, which works out to 1,575 deaths per year. However, the American military is a huge organization, which has never slipped below 1.35 million active-duty servicemembers in any given year across all branches. There were 1.7 million active servicemembers on average per year from 1980 to 2010, and when you add in the full-time equivalent service hours of reserve forces, the United States has fielded nearly 1.9 million full-time equivalent servicemembers each year for the past three decades.  Because enlistment figures fluctuate from year to year, assessing military casualties based on the rate of death per 100,000 serving each year gives us a more consistent picture of the dangers faced by our servicemembers. Over these three decades of tracking, 82 servicemembers per 100,000 have died each year to all possible causes , and the leading cause of death is probably not the one you'd most suspect:  Source: Defense Casualty Analysis System.  Accidents are by far the most consistent danger to military personnel, surpassing all other causes of death in every year tracked except the five (2004 through 2007 and 2010) most identified with major actions in Iraq. In fact, before 2002, the U.S. military endured only two years (1987, when an Iraqi jet attacked the U.S.S. Stark , and 1991, during Operation Desert Storm) of combat-related casualties in excess of one servicemember per 100,000. Accident-related deaths, on the other hand, while in decline since 1980 (reaching a three-decade low of 25.2 per 100,000 servicemembers in 2010), still account for the lion's share of all military deaths, and have been responsible for an average of 40.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year since 1980.       Had the United States not mired itself in first "liberating" and then policing of Iraq, the average number of combat fatalities would be far lower, as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan didn't surpass deaths in Iraq until 2009. Even though American troops withdrew from Iraq at the end of 2011, total U.S. military deaths in that country are still roughly twice as high as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan. Despite this uptick in combat deaths, illness (which claimed 14.3 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) and suicide (which claimed 11.8 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) were still greater scourges of the military than battle, which has been responsible for an average of 9.3 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year from 1980 through 2010. However, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq did push the number of combat-related deaths up significantly, to a rate of 27.7 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010 . This higher fatality rate pushed the overall military death rate up to 93.4 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010.  But serving in the military isn't even the most dangerous job in America, even if we focus only on the period after the opening of these two combat theaters. Would you like to know what's more dangerous than military service?   Source: Kyle Rush via Flickr.   Logging: 127.8 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 You're a lumberjack, but you might not be OK, because you work in the most dangerous occupation in America, with 45 more deaths per 100,000 workers than the armed forces. In the three decades we've examined, the military never suffered more deaths per 100,000 personnel than the logging industry suffered in 2012. The military's worst year was 2007, when combat deaths hit modern highs of 52.7 per 100,000 servicemembers and total military deaths reached 121.4 per 100,000 servicemembers.  Fishing: 117.0 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 The high death rate of fishermen (or fisherfolk, if you prefer something gender-neutral) might not be so much of a surprise, as this is a profession that has a reality show -- Deadliest Catch -- that tells you it's dangerous right in the title! The military's annual death rate only surpassed that of the fishing industry in 2007, and its three-decade average death rate is nearly 35 personnel per 100,000 lower than it is for fishing.       If you're looking for job security and personal safety, you'd actually be better off joining the military than working as a lumberjack or in the fishing industry. Military service will -- unless you do something horrendously improper -- guarantee at least four years of pay, which should generally be at least $20,000 per year (pay grade E-3, which is a private first class in the Army or a seaman in the Navy, pays $21,700 per year), much of which will be take-home because of general military policy of providing room and board to servicemembers. Loggers, on the other hand, make a median salary of only $33,600 per year, nearly identical to the $33,400 median salary in the fishing industry. The logging industry is expected to see a 9% decline in its employment numbers by 2022, and the fishing industry is expected to lose 5% of its workforce during the same time frame.  Nearly any military servicemember with career ambitions is likely to earn more than the median logging or fishing salary after several years, and some may even start off earning more -- the lowest pay grade for the officer corps (a second lieutenant in the Army or an ensign in the navy) equates to an annual salary of $34,900.  Combat isn't that common If you're still concerned about the risk of death in combat, keep in mind that the military won't have its boots on the ground in hostile countries all the time -- at least not as long as voters have a say in the matter and choose to elect less hawkish politicians. Even so, there were still several other jobs more likely to kill you than combat in the military during this period of global police action:  Sources: Defense Casualty Analysis System and U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. *Note: military casualty rates are from 2001 through 2010 and pay grade used is E-4. Other occupational casualty rates and median salaries used from BLS data and are current through 2012.  The military certainly isn't the safest place to earn a living, but it's hardly the death trap many concerned parents and nervous would-be enlistees might think. In fact, analysis performed by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center found that death rates were significantly lower in the Navy (60.9 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) and in the Air Force (47.4 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) from 1990 through 2011 than for the military as a whole -- Marines, at 103.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year, are taxed harder than any other military branch, but even this heightened death rate doesn't surpass that suffered by logging or fishing workers.       No one should join the military expecting it to be a cushy cakewalk, but at the same time, it's worth keeping in mind that there are deadlier jobs with less job security than military service. There are plenty of other considerations as well. Military life can still be very dangerous, even if it's not deadly, and these casualty figures don't account for grievous but survivable wounds that can have lifelong impacts on a servicemember's life. However, barring another major conflict -- and since it took about 30 years for Americans to get over Vietnam before committing to another long-term fight in Iraq, it seems unlikely that the military will be plunged into a new quagmire any time soon -- we should probably expect military casualty rates to keep falling in the coming years.     Add Alex Planes on Google+ , or follow him on Twitter, @TMFBiggles , for more insight into markets, history, and technology.  Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )     Alex Planes specializes in the deep analysis of tech, energy, and retail companies, with a particular focus on the ways new or proposed technologies can (and will) shape the future. He is also a dedicated student of financial and business history, often drawing on major events from the past to help readers better understand what's happening today and what might happen tomorrow. Connect with Alex on LinkedIn or Twitter for more news and insight:      Follow @TMFBiggles          Article Info     Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM   Markets               Read More     5 Years From Now You'll Wish You Grabbed These Stocks    How the Dow's Top Dividend-Paying Stocks Have Fared in 2016    A Look at President Trump's Stock Portfolio    What Investors Missed in the Stock Market Last Week    The Top Tech ETF of the Week                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service @themotleyfool #stocks                                          Straight Dope Message Board > Main > General Questions >  Odds of dying greater for a civilian in the US than a soldier in Iraq?   PDA  View Full Version : Odds of dying greater for a civilian in the US than a soldier in Iraq?   Revtim 11-04-2005, 03:15 PM I overheard a coworker of mine talking, and his son just signed up for the Army.  His son told him that a civilian in the US actually has greater odds of dying than a soldier in Iraq, based on how many soldiers are over there vs. how many have been killed.  Is this actually true?  It sounds like a lie from a recruiter to me.  OldGuy 11-04-2005, 03:19 PM I overheard a coworker of mine talking, and his son just signed up for the Army.  His son told him that a civilian in the US actually has greater odds of dying than a soldier in Iraq, based on how many soldiers are over there vs. how many have been killed.  Is this actually true?  It sounds like a lie from a recruiter to me.  It might be true if you compare soldiers to all civilians in the U.S. disregadrding age and health.  But there are very few (none?) soldiers in Iraq dying of old age, cancer, etc.  Hampshire 11-04-2005, 03:27 PM It might be true if you compare soldiers to all civilians in the U.S. disregadrding age and health.  But there are very few (none?) soldiers in Iraq dying of old age, cancer, etc.  I'd agree.  The ratio of U.S. citizens to daily U.S. deaths may be worse that U.S. troops in Iraq to daily death rate of U.S. troops in Iraq. However, if you only counted U.S. deaths that were results of accidents and murders Iraq would be a worse off place.  Sal Ammoniac 11-04-2005, 03:45 PM Another way to think of it is like this -- you have roughly 140,000 soldiers in Iraq.  They are, for the most part, young and healthy.  We'll lose about 660 of them a year, at current rates, due to enemy action.  Now, if those 140,000 soldiers were home, would you lose 660 in a year?  You would not.  Check out this site (http://www.nsc.org/lrs/statinfo/odds.htm) for the odds of dying in a given year from any form of accident -- car accident, murder, fall from a horse, etc.  By my reckoning, of a population of 140,000, at most about 80 would die by accident in a year.  Throw in a few more for mortality due to illness, and you'd still be a long way from 660.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 04:04 PM My rough calculation:  Annual odds of dying in Iraq:  2000 deaths/150,000 troops (on average)/2.7 years = 0.5%  Annual odds of dying in the U.S. from the CDC (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/05facts/lifeexpectancy.htm) 840 deaths/100,000 people/1 year = 0.84%  So you're about 1.7 times more likely to die in the U.S. BUT that's not adjusted for age. Let's try to ballpark the effect of age. The average age of the troops in Iraq that I could find was 27 years.  The annual likelihood of dying in the U.S. if you're 25-34 (from the CDC again)  102.2/100,000 people/1 year =  0.1%  This isn't a great way to adjust for age, but it's the best I can do with the information I've got - and it suggests that for your age, you're about 5 times more likely to die in Iraq than in the U.S.  Giles 11-04-2005, 04:11 PM According to Table no. 95 in Vital Statistics (http://www.census.gov/prod/2004pubs/04statab/vitstat.pdf) from Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2004-2005, the recent death rate in the U.S. is about 8.5 per 1,000.  mhendo 11-04-2005, 04:53 PM Our own Airman Doors made a similar argument in his thread (http://boards.straightdope.com/sdmb/showthread.php?t=268641&page=1&pp=50) about Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11, although his point of comparison was specifically auto accidents. He said, in post #89:Just to illustrate the point, we have lost to this day 909 people in Iraq, 129 more if we add Afghanistan. Add another 128 for Desert Storm, a few hundred for a myriad of reasons, and a few hundred more for accidents (crashes, 9/11, etc.), and let's just say that it's 4,000 people dead since 1979 (we'll start with Desert One, and yes, the number is probably lowball). 45,000 people die yearly in car accidents. So statistically, you're safer being in the military for your entire career including occupying a hostile country for well over a year than you are driving a car daily. It's a small consolation to those who have died, but it's a risk that we all take, and a small one at that.In reply, monstro pointed out, in post #99:Your argument is embarrassingly faulty.  How many people ride and drive in cars in the US?  About 300 million?  How does that compare to the number of soldiers who have fought in Iraq and Afganistan?  909 soldiers would still be alive if not for this ill-begotten war.  Your argument screams in the face of reason and common sense, not to mention belittling the sacrifice of people who have died serving their country (which I know is unintentional).  Color me confused for why you felt the need to go all the way back to 1979 to make your argument.  Recruiters are bringing in soldiers for current and future involvements.  It would not be wise for a guy to sign up for the military based on "peacetime" fatality rates from twenty-five years ago.  They'd be wise to look at what's happening now.  Now ain't looking too good.And Hentor the Barbarian added, in post #103:Oh, Airman Doors!  The denominator is your friend!  Why would you abuse it so?  From The NHTSA (http://www-nrd.nhtsa.dot.gov/pdf/nrd-30/NCSA/TSFAnn/TSF2002Final.pdf) we get the statistics for 2002:  fatalities=42,815, licensed drivers=194,295,633.  We'll take the numbers just for Iraq, since I can't find the stats through a brief check for Iraq and Afghanistan.  Troops=130,000, fatalities=909.  Here is a handy calculator for odds ratios: http://www.hutchon.freeserve.co.uk/ConfidOR.htm.  What you find is that, comparing the number of drivers in 2002 with troops in Iraq, the soldier in Iraq is 31.77 times more likely to be killed than an American driver.  If you had stats for the number of fatalities among the number of members of the armed forces from 1979-2004, and the number of fatalities among the number of car drivers during that time, you could also calculate the odds ratio for that comparison.  I suspect, however, that the greater risk will continue to be found among the service members.  It is a risky job, hence the debt of gratitude that we owe members of the armed forces.  It's a bit of a surprise that you would argue otherwise.And i entered the fray in post #107 with similar observations to monstro and Hentor:Just wanted to add to monstro's point here.  According to this site (http://www.geocities.com/pwhce/willing.html) the United States had 130,000 troops in Iraq in March 2004. It's the only statistic i could find for over US troop numbers, so it's the one i'm going to use. If anyone has better or more complete figures, i'd be happy to see them.  Now, it been 16 months since the invasion began, and in that time, according to Airman Doors, the US has lost 909 troops in Iraq. So, over 16 months the losses are 909/130,000.  Now, we want the figures for a one-year period, so we multiply this by 12/16. This gives us a figure of about 755/130,000, or about 5.8 deaths per 1,000 troops per year.  Now, Airman tells us that 45,000 people die each year on America's road. I'm happy enough to accept that figure. Total population of the United States is about 280 million. So, 45,000/280,000,000 gives us 1/6222, or about 0.16 deaths per 1000 Americans.  Even if we use only licensed drivers, we find that in the year 2000, there were about 190 million licensed drivers (http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/ohim/onh00/onh2p4.htm) in the United States. This makes driving appear slightly more dangerous, with final figures of about 0.24 deaths per 1000 drivers.  So, let's review the figures:  US soldiers in Iraq: 5.8 deaths per 1000 soldiers per year  Americans on the road: 0.16 deaths per 1000 population per year  Americans with drivers' licenses: 0.24 deaths per 1000 drivers per year  So, a soldier in Iraq is somewhere between 24 and 36 times more likely to die in Iraq than an American on our nation's roads. I see, on preview, that Hentor arrived at a figure of 31.77. Pretty close to my numbers.  Furthermore, Airman's "statistics" try to take us all the way back to 1979. But what he gorgets is that, during periods of peace, when American troops are not stationed in hostile territory, they are subject to the same risk of traffic accidents as the rest of the population. Correct me if i'm wrong, Airman, but i believe that you served much of your time in the armed forces right here in America? In which case, you probably ran the same risk of being in a car accident as any other American. As i suggested in that thread, this is not simply an either/or situation. For those serving in Iraq, you have to add the possibility that they will be killed by an act related to the occupation (enemy fire, friendly fire, insurgent suicide bomb, etc., etc.) to the regular, run-of-the-mill possibilities of death. Also, as others have suggested here, you have to compare the death rate in Iraq not to the overall US death rate, but to the death rate of those with similar demographic indicators as those serving in Iraq. Most of those in Iraq are relatively young, healthy folks who have, in most cases, been cleared by the military of any ailments and afflictions that would likely impede their abilities or cause them serious health concerns. If you look at the death rate among similarly young, healthy folks here in the US, i suggest that it's probably rather lower than the death rate among US troops in Iraq.  Most fundamentally, you have to ask: Of all the people who have served in Iraq since the start of the war, how many would likely be dead if the war had never started? Would it likely be fewer than 2,000 people?  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 06:32 PM If you look at the death rate among similarly young, healthy folks here in the US, i suggest that it's probably rather lower than the death rate among US troops in Iraq.I showed that above already I think. It's around five times lower.  mhendo 11-04-2005, 06:45 PM I showed that above already I think. It's around five times lower.Indeed you did.  And your figures, as i'm sure you realize, don't even take account of the fact that members of the armed forces are probably, on the whole, fitter and healthier than the average for their age group.  Bear_Nenno 11-04-2005, 07:26 PM The Army's Combat Readiness Center claims that right now 1 soldier dies every 9 hours. If we subtract the combat deaths, that's still a shit load of young healthy people dying back home. Most of those are caused by driving POVs, drinking, or just "blowing off steam" - which I think includes sports and extreme sports fatalities.  Not really making a point. Just thought someone could use the 1 every 9 hours for an anual statistic and maybe subtract the soldier deaths in Iraq (remember just Army) and see what we come up with for a % chance of a soldier dying in Iraq vs dying in the US. I think it would be the most accurate comparisson.  Bear_Nenno 11-04-2005, 07:31 PM Oh... and training. Don't know how I forgot to mention training. Many of those fatalities are from soldiers dying while training. So I think whatever number we'd come up with doing the math above, it wont be accurate to compare to civilians. But it will say how, if you're in the Army already, how much your chance of death is actually increased by going to Iraq.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 08:59 PM And your figures, as i'm sure you realize, don't even take account of the fact that members of the armed forces are probably, on the whole, fitter and healthier than the average for their age group.Maybe. But they're also on the whole from lower socioeconomic groups too, I think. Which I'd expect would have an impact in the other direction. Overall I'm happier with just ballparking by age and acknowledging that that only gives you a rough idea, but nevertheless clearly shows a far higher likelihood of death in Iraq, on the order of at least several times the likehood of death in the U.S.  Bear_Nenno - can you provide a cite for your data point? I'm not sure exactly what 1 death every 9 hours is referring to.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 09:15 PM Oh, and another issue, mhendo, is that there are more men in Iraq and men ordinarily have something like twice the death rates in that age group as women (translation: men can't take care of themselves :p ). So that would also tend to cancel out any better  health effect.  R. P. McMurphy 11-05-2005, 06:50 AM If we were to follow your coworker's (il)logic then we would send all of our old and sick citizens over to Iraq because, according to the stats, they would have less chance of dying. That makes sense, doesn't it?  This is another example of using bogus, incomplete information to manipulate people's attitudes and decisions.  C K Dexter Haven 11-05-2005, 08:24 AM The Army's Combat Readiness Center claims that right now 1 soldier dies every 9 hours This has the same problem that has been pointed out several times: the number of deaths per hour among a group of 150,000 people is way different from the number of deaths per hour among a group of 300,000,000 people.  Revtim, by the same argument, it's safer to be a teenage drunk driver than to be an ordinary citizen. The same demographic non-comparability would apply.  So, we got a gummint representative misusing statistics? How astounding.  Bear_Nenno 11-06-2005, 03:47 AM Bear_Nenno - can you provide a cite for your data point? I'm not sure exactly what 1 death every 9 hours is referring to. https://crc.army.mil/readiness/  Not sure if it will work without login and password, but I think it should.  Johnny L.A. 11-06-2005, 08:38 AM Revtim:  I'm curious if you have given these statistics to your co-worker.  On one hand, I support fighting ingorance.  On the other hand it you were to offer the information unbidden, you'd probably piss him off.            vBulletin® v3.8.7, Copyright ©2000-2018, vBulletin Solutions, Inc.   Send questions for Cecil Adams to: cecil@straightdope.com Send comments about this website to: webmaster@straightdope.com  Terms of Use / Privacy Policy  Advertise on the Straight Dope!  (Your direct line to thousands of the smartest, hippest people on the planet, plus a few total dipsticks.) Publishers - interested in subscribing to the Straight Dope? Write to: sdsubscriptions@chicagoreader.com . Copyright © 2018 STM Reader, LLC.      We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more    Skip to Main Content                             Search       Account Menu       Menu      University of Michigan     University of Michigan        Sign In        Register            Navbar Search Filter    All  International Journal of Epidemiology    All  Journals    Mobile Microsite Search Term           Sign In          University of Michigan    University of Michigan       Register         Issues    Advance articles    Submit     Author Guidelines    Submission Site    Order Offprints    Open Access Options      Purchase    Alerts    About     About International Journal of Epidemiology    About the International Epidemiological Association    Editorial Board    Advertising and Corporate Services    Self-Archiving Policy    Dispatch Dates    Contact the IEA                             Issues    Advance articles    Submit     Author Guidelines    Submission Site    Order Offprints    Open Access Options      Purchase    Alerts    About     About International Journal of Epidemiology    About the International Epidemiological Association    Editorial Board    Advertising and Corporate Services    Self-Archiving Policy    Dispatch Dates    Contact the IEA        Close    search filter    All  International Journal of Epidemiology    All  Journals    search input      Advanced Search                              Article Navigation     Close mobile search navigation   Article navigation            Volume 36  Issue 4    August 2007       Article Contents     Abstract      Introduction      Methods      Results      Discussion      References          < Previous    Next >           Article Navigation          Military fatality rates (by cause) in Afghanistan and Iraq: a measure of hostilities         Sheila M Bird    1 MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge CB2 2SR.    *   * Corresponding author. MRC Biostatistics Unit, Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 2SR. E-mail: Sheila.bird@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk   Search for other works by this author on:   Oxford Academic    PubMed    Google Scholar     Sheila M Bird       Clive B Fairweather    2 Combatstress, Leatherhead KT22 OBX.   Search for other works by this author on:   Oxford Academic    PubMed    Google Scholar     Clive B Fairweather       International Journal of Epidemiology , Volume 36, Issue 4, 1 August 2007, Pages 841–846, https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dym103     Published:  10 May 2007    Article history       Accepted:  16 April 2007   Close                 Views       Article contents  Figures & tables  Video  Audio  Supplementary Data      PDF      Cite   Citation  Sheila M Bird, Clive B Fairweather;  Military fatality rates (by cause) in Afghanistan and Iraq: a measure of hostilities, International Journal of Epidemiology , Volume 36, Issue 4, 1 August 2007, Pages 841–846, https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dym103  Download citation file:   RIS (Zotero)  EndNote  BibTex  Medlars  ProCite  RefWorks  Reference Manager    © 2018 Oxford University Press  Close         Permissions         Share       Email  Twitter  Facebook            Navbar Search Filter    All    All  Journals    Mobile Microsite Search Term           Sign In          Register             Close    search filter    All    All  Journals    search input      Advanced Search                Abstract  Background Military fatalities occur in clusters, and causes differ between theatres of operation or within-theatre over time. Aim Based on around 500 coalition deaths, identify major causes in Iraq and Afghanistan. For consecutive periods (1: May 1 to September 17, 2006, 2: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007), ascertain UK and others’ numbers deployed to compare fatality rates per 1000-personnel years. Take account of clustering: deaths per fatal improvised explosive device (IED) incident, and in making short-term projections for Afghanistan. Methods Cause and date of coalition deaths in Iraq and Afghanistan are as listed in http://www.iCasualties.org , where each death is designated as hostile or non-hostile. Numbers deployed in 2006 were available for UK and Canada, and for US to Iraq. Findings Out of 537 coalition fatalities in Iraq in 2006 to September 17, 2006, 457 (85%) were hostile, but only half were in Afghanistan (October 2001 to September 17, 2006: 52%, 249/478). Air losses accounted for 5% fatalities in Iraq, but 32% in Afghanistan. IEDs claimed three out of five hostile deaths in Iraq, only a quarter in Afghanistan. Deaths per fatal IED incident averaged 1.5. In period 1, 50/117 military deaths in Afghanistan were UK or Canadian from 6750 personnel, a fatality rate of 19/1000/year, nearly four times the US rate of 5/1000/year in Iraq (based on 280 deaths). Sixty out of 117 fatalities in Afghanistan occurred as clusters of two or more deaths. In period 2, fatality rates changed: down by two-thirds in Afghanistan for UK and Canadian forces to 6/1000/year (18 deaths), up by 46% for US troops in Iraq to 7.5/1000/year (416 deaths). Interpretation Rate, and cause, of military fatalities are capable of abrupt change, as happened in Iraq (rate) and Afghanistan (rate and cause) between consecutive 140-day periods. Forecasts can be wide of the mark.   Military fatality rates , specific causes of death , clusters , short-term projections  Introduction  Keeping a track on fatalities and injuries by cause, 1 and on variations in the number of troops deployed to a theatre of war, such as Iraq 2 or Afghanistan, 3, 4 provides indications of cause-specific trends; and serves as a reference from which to monitor major changes, some of them sudden. Trends in military fatalities due to improvised explosive devices (IEDs) or suicide bombings 1, 4 are of military or media interest respectively. For analysis purposes, a force of 1000 servicemen and women on operations for 1 year constitutes 1000 personnel-years (pys); and so too does a deployment of 4000 personnel for a quarter year. Insightful analysis involves not only the numbers of military fatalities by nationality and cause, but computation of rates per 1000 pys. 2 An equivalent tally should be kept up for other nations 4 besides our own because the combined data may offer a more secure platform for drawing inferences, and making projections. 1, 4 Corresponding period-specific counts for the enemy (of fatalities, casualties and numbers deployed) and of civilian collateral damage—both direct 5–7 and indirectly 6–8 —give a rounded, quantitative understanding of fighting efficiencies, and the broader impact of war. The fatality rate of the Taliban's ‘foot soldiers from among the poor, ordinary Afghan tribesmen,’ 9 the extent of their losses, 10 and how readily those who die can be replaced by new recruits are critical questions, both epidemiologically and militarily, but are beyond the scope of this article. Our analysis of the rate, causes and clustering of military deaths in Afghanistan and, in 2006, in Iraq updates earlier articles on UK's military fatality rates per 1000 pys since March 20, 2003 in Iraq, 2 and on the need for military and public health sciences to collaborate. 5–7 Clustering was tragically evident on September 2, 2006 when a Nimrod came down in southern Afghanistan with the loss of 14 British lives. Moderately sophisticated analysis should be publicly reported for democratic assurance 11 that statistical science is being deployed in the service of our forces—as diligently as medico-surgical skills are. 12 Anticipated or empirical risks can then be rapidly redressed. 13–15 In Afghanistan, by straightforward empirical measures, the threat to our forces was major in mid 2006. 3 Coalition fatalities were approximately 500 in markedly different theatres and periods of operation (Afghanistan from October 1, 2001 to September 17, 2006, and Iraq from January 1, 2006 to September 17, 2006). Differences between these theatres of operation include that the coalition entered Iraq as an invasion force, not so Afghanistan. Terrain and seasonality are quite diverse between Afghanistan and Iraq. An urban focus to military operations in Iraq necessitates the use of central road configurations. Different cross-border and illegal supply lines to the enemy apply in Afghanistan and Iraq. And eradication of the opium poppy crop threatens livelihoods in Afghanistan, which has a long-established fighting tradition.  Methods  First, we compare causes of death between theatres of operation. Thereafter, our focus is on comparing (national) fatality rates in consecutive 140-day periods (May 1, 2006 to September 17, 2006; September 18 to February 4, 2007) in Afghanistan and Iraq; and on the clustering of fatalities by IEDs or air-related. We test a 70-day ahead projection for UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan which took clustering into account. Not all fatality rates can be estimated, however, because relevant denominators (period-specific troop numbers by nationality) are lacking. Data on fatalities by date, place and cause have been derived from the iCasualties.org website, 16 to which we make acknowledgement. On iCasualties.org, each fatality is designated as ’hostile’ or non- hostile. We use this designation, but have no means of its verification. Non-hostile deaths include illness, accidents (vehicular, in the air, other), injury and suicide. Information on date or cause of death is liable to minor change between dates of accessing iCasualties.org. We imposed an hierarchical coding for major causes of death as follows: airplane or helicopter, IED, rocket-propelled grenade (RPG), suicide bomber, small arms fire, all other causes. This avoids double-counting of those deaths for which more than one contributory cause was cited. Thus, if a helicopter was brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities were coded to helicopter; and if a soldier died by small arms fire and RPG attack, the death was coded to RPG. Short-term forecasts of military fatalities can either assume Poisson variation, which entails no clustering, or can take clustering explicitly into account by recognizing that deaths occur singly, in small clusters of mean size m1, or in rarer large clusters of mean size m2. Poisson variation comes into the second approach by way of estimating the expected number of singleton deaths, expected number of small clusters and in giving the probability of occurrence of one or more large clusters. We illustrate short-term 70-day forecasts by both methods. Uncertainty or 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) are used interchangeably and, because they pertain to 140-day periods or longer, are Poisson based. Thus, uncertainty may be under-estimated by failing to account fully for extra-Poisson variation. How fatalities were attributed may differ in the level of detail provided to iCasualties.org between access times and also between Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan) and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Terminologies differ between nations which deployed forces. For example, the two classifications, aircraft and airplane, need to be pooled. Notice also that friendly fire deaths can be designated as either ‘hostile’ or ‘non-hostile’, and so both need to be searched, and their totals added. Deducing the number of deaths per fatal IED incident was primarily based on coincidence of date and place of death, as publicly reported on the Iraq Coalition Casualty Count site ( http://www.icasualties.org/oif/Details.aspx , accessed September 23, 2006, February 9, 2007 and March 20, 2007). Exceptionally, commonality of military unit strongly suggested coincidence. Finally, for definiteness, 10 fatal IED incidents in Iraq in 2006 were excluded from our analysis of deaths per fatal IED incident, as follows: disarming IED (three fatalities) and 12 fatalities in seven incidents that involved both small arms fire and IED ( http://www.icasulaties.org/oif/Details.aspx , accessed on September 23, 2006, February 9, 2007 and March 20, 2007). US's deployment to Iraq was cited as 145 000 in September 2006, 17 and has been assumed to have been roughly this number throughout 2006 to February 4, 2007. In Afghanistan, British marines took over from the parachute regiment in late September 2006, and thereafter UK's operational deployment to Afghanistan increased by some 500 to 750 troops from 4500 hitherto. After 9 months under British leadership, command of International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan passed to an American general on February 4, 2007. 18  Results  Overview of approximately 500 coalition fatalities per theatre of operation: Afghanistan and Iraq  Table 1 shows that, from January 1 to September 17, 2006 (260 days), there were 537 coalition deaths in Iraq, of whom 505 (94%) were US troops and 20 (4%) from UK, these totals being broadly proportionate to respective deployments. From October 2001 to September 17, 2006 (nearly five years), there were 478 coalition deaths in Afghanistan, of whom 339 (71%) were US troops, 40 from UK and 32 from Canada. However, nearly one-third (153/478) of the military deaths in Afghanistan to September 17, 2006 occurred in 2006 itself, when US's deployment had sharply reduced, and its proportion of fatalities also: down from 80% (259/325) prior to 2006 to around half thereafter, including up to February 4, 2007 [51%: (80 + 18)/(153 + 40), 95% CI from 44 to 58%].   Table 1 Epoch-specific military fatalities by nationality in Iraq and Afghanistan  Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 (Rough-guide to deployments in 2006: approximately 145 000 US troops and over 7000 UK troops to Iraq; around 4500 UK troops and 2250 Canadian troops to Afghanistan: see also Methods and text). View Large Table 1 Epoch-specific military fatalities by nationality in Iraq and Afghanistan  Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 (Rough-guide to deployments in 2006: approximately 145 000 US troops and over 7000 UK troops to Iraq; around 4500 UK troops and 2250 Canadian troops to Afghanistan: see also Methods and text). View Large  Overview of major hostile causes of military fatalities in Iraq in 2006, and overall in Afghanistan: both to September 17, 2006  The vast majority of coalition fatalities in Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2006 to September 17 (85%: 457/537) was ascribed as hostile. Hostilities per se accounted for only about half of the overall fatalities in Afghanistan since 2001 (52%: 249/478 with 95% CI from 48% to 57%). In Afghanistan, however, the proportion of fatalities due directly to hostilities increased markedly over time (chi-square = 17 on 2 degrees of freedom, P < 0.001) having been 41% pre-2005 (80/195: 95% CI from 34 to 48%), 56% in 2005 (73/130) but 63% in 2006 to September 17 (96/153: 95% CI from 55 to 70%). Selected causes of death claimed a different toll in Iraq in 2006 and overall in Afghanistan. In particular, IEDs accounted for 53% of all fatalities in Iraq in 2006 to September 17, and for 62% of hostile deaths (282/457: 95% CI from 57 to 66%). But IEDs accounted for only 13% of fatalities overall in Afghanistan and, more or less consistently, for around 25% of hostile deaths (63/249: 95% CI from 20 to 31%). There were, in fact, 28 IED fatalities in 2006 to September 17 (out of 153 coalition deaths in Afghanistan, that is: 18%) compared with only 15 IED deaths out of 195 (8%) fatalities pre-2005 but, as mentioned above, hostile deaths had increased sharply over time. Downed helicopters and aircraft, which accounted for only 5% of fatalities in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17), claimed 151 out of 478 coalition lives (32%) overall in Afghanistan, 39 of them in 2006 (to September 17: or 25%, that is 39/153). To September 17, 2006, RPGs accounted for only five out of 457 hostile deaths (1%) in Iraq in 2006, but for 13 out of 249 hostile deaths overall in Afghanistan (5%), most of these, significantly, having occurred in 2006 when RPGs claimed 10/96 (10%) hostile deaths. Small arms fire was responsible for 61 out of 457 hostile deaths (13%); and for 61 out of 175 non-IED hostile deaths (35%: 95% CI from 28 to 42%) in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17). Similarly, small arms fire accounted for 29 out of 249 hostile deaths overall (12%) in Afghanistan; but for only 29 (16%) out of 186 non-IED hostile deaths. However, as with RPG fatalities, all but one of the deaths in Afghanistan ascribed to small arms fire occurred in 2006, so that in 2006 (to September 17) small arms fire contributed to 28 out of 96 hostile deaths (29%: 95% CI from 20 to 38%) in Afghanistan; and to 28 out of 68 non-IED hostile deaths (41%), the latter comparable with Iraq in 2006. Finally, suicide bombers claimed the same number (14) of coalition fatalities in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17) as in Afghanistan overall. Friendly fire had cost no lives in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17), where US and UK troops operate in different regions, but 11 in Afghanistan overall.  Fatal IED incidents in Iraq throughout 2006 to February 4, 2007  Table 2 shows that there were 271 deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents in Iraq in 2006 to September 17 and 222 deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents in the subsequent 140 days, a pooled mean of 1.52 deaths per fatal IED incident.   Table 2 Frequency distribution for deaths per fatal IED incident in Iraq in 2006 through to February 4, 2007, and overall in Afghanistan   Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0)  Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0) Bold entries are pooled/total area. View Large Table 2 Frequency distribution for deaths per fatal IED incident in Iraq in 2006 through to February 4, 2007, and overall in Afghanistan   Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0)  Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0) Bold entries are pooled/total area. View Large The IED-fatality distributions for Iraq in-2006-to-September-17 and for the subsequent 140 days are highly consistent one with the other (chi-square goodness of fit on 3 degrees of freedom = 1.47). Moreover, pooled, they also give a surprisingly good fit to the overall data (to February 4, 2007) from Afghanistan on 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents (chi-square goodness of fit on 2 degrees of freedom = 1.7), ( Table 2 ).  Military fatality rates in Afghanistan and Iraq: compared in consecutive 140-day periods  The International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan was under British command from May 2006, when UK's operational deployment to Afghanistan was about 4500 as compared with around 2250 Canadian troops and about 7200 UK troops in Iraq. In the subsequent 140 days (September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007), UK troop numbers may have increased by 500–750 in Afghanistan, but decreased modestly to 7000 in Iraq. From May 1 to September 17, 2006, Table 1 showed 117 coalition fatalities in Afghanistan, which included 54 US, 33 UK, 17 Canadian and 13 other nations’ deaths. UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan were broadly proportionate to their respective deployments so that 50 deaths in 140 days from a combined deployment of around 6750 personnel (that is: 2589 pys) gave a high UK and Canadian fatality rate of 19/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 14 to 25). Coalition fatalities in Afghanistan reduced by two-thirds during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 when there were 40 deaths: 18 US, 6 UK, 12 Canadian and four from other nations. In this second 140-day period, UK and Canadian military fatality rate had reduced to 18 deaths from a combined deployment of 6750 to 7500 personnel (that is: 2589 or 2877 pys), and so to between 6.3 and 7/1000/year (Poisson and deployment uncertainty: 4.1 to 11.0 or 3.7 to 9.9/1000/year). Canadian troops did not deploy to Iraq. Table 1 showed that, from May 1 to September 17, 2006, 299 military fatalities in Iraq included 280 US, 14 UK and five other nations’ deaths. US's military fatality rate in these 140 days from an estimated deployment of 145 000 personnel (that is: 55 616 pys) was thus 5.0/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 4.4 to 5.6/1000/year); and similarly for UK troops (but wider Poisson uncertainty: 2.8 to 8.5/1000/year). In contrast to Afghanistan, coalition fatalities in Iraq increased dramatically by 46% during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 when there were 437 deaths: 417 US, 12 UK and eight from other nations. In this second 140-day period, US's military fatality rate increased to 7.5/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 6.8 to 8.2).  Clustering and cause of military fatalities in Afghanistan: compared in consecutive 140-day periods  Coalition fatalities in Afghanistan are shown summarily in Table 3 for May 1 to September 17, 2006 (140 days), and the subsequent 140 days.   Table 3 Coalition fatalities by cause in Operation Enduring Freedom in the 140 days from May 1 to September 17, 2006; and during subsequent 140 days    iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8          iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8        IED = Improvised Explosive Device, RPG = Rocket Propelled Grenade. Table 3 is based on iCasualties.org but imposes hierarchical coding of causes of death (left to right) so that if helicopter is brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities are coded to Helicopter and if a soldier died in small arms fire and RPG, the death is coded to RPG. Bold entries indicate a) main results and b) number of fatalities in clusters of 7+ fatalities. View Large Table 3 Coalition fatalities by cause in Operation Enduring Freedom in the 140 days from May 1 to September 17, 2006; and during subsequent 140 days    iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8          iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8        IED = Improvised Explosive Device, RPG = Rocket Propelled Grenade. Table 3 is based on iCasualties.org but imposes hierarchical coding of causes of death (left to right) so that if helicopter is brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities are coded to Helicopter and if a soldier died in small arms fire and RPG, the death is coded to RPG. Bold entries indicate a) main results and b) number of fatalities in clusters of 7+ fatalities. View Large Sixty out of 117 fatalities from May 1 to September 17, 2006 occurred as 17 clusters of two or more deaths. Downed aircraft or helicopter can account for large clusters of fatalities, as in the 14 and 10 fatalities reported in Table 3 , or for few—as in four other incidents. Mean size and standard deviation for smaller clusters (fewer than seven fatalities) were similar between periods because, in the subsequent 140 days, there were no large clusters of fatalities in aircraft or helicopter. The majority of hostile deaths during May 1 to September 17, 2006 was attributable to small arms fire, IEDs and RPG attacks. Suicide bombers caused seven military fatalities. Non-hostile deaths were about two per week (41), which included 25 fatalities in the air. The lower number of military deaths during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 was due, essentially, to no fatalities in the air, a major reduction in deaths from small arms fire (down from 19 to three), and to a marked reduction also in non-hostile deaths (down from 16 non-air-related to only four).  Short-term, 70-day projection of military fatalities in Afghanistan: September 18 to November 26, 2006  Based on Table 3 , if the next 70 days had continued with the pattern and deployments set by the past 140 days, then we may have expected: (i) 25 UK and Canadian fatalities (Poisson uncertainty: 15 to 35), two-thirds of them British. Alternatively, consider first that 60/117 fatalities in Afghanistan had occurred in 17 clusters (two large clusters with mean of 12 fatalities; and 15 other clusters which accounted for 36 deaths, and so mean of 2.4 deaths). Notice that 12 fatalities per large cluster is similar to a mean of 11.4 based on 80 fatalities in seven previous air disasters in Afghanistan since October 2001, in each of which 7+ lives were lost. Second, note that UK and Canadian forces accounted for 50/117 fatalities. Therefore, we may have expected: (ii) 12.2 singleton fatalities (that is: 50/117 × 57 × 0.5 period), 3.2 small clusters (that is: 50/117 × 15 × 0.5 period) with a mean of 2.4 deaths per cluster (or 7.7 deaths), plus a 28% chance that a single large cluster of fatalities occurs (with expected 12 deaths) and a 7% chance of their being two or more such large clusters. The 28% probability derives from Poisson distribution with large cluster expectation of 0.42 (that is: 50/117 × 2 × 0.5 period). Thus, there was a 65% chance that UK and Canadian deaths from September 18 to November 26, 2006 would be 20 in expectation, but a 35% chance that expected deaths could be 32 or worse. In reality, UK and Canadian fatalities were 11 [one UK+10 Canadian, in six incidents (1 + 1, 1, 2, 2, 4)], and so significantly low ( P = 0.05, 2-tail test) even against an expectation of 20 in the absence (as transpired) of any large cluster of deaths.  Discussion  Coalition forces entered Afghanistan on a totally different basis than Iraq. Afghanistan's terrain and warlike history shape Taliban tactics. In 2006, a professional, non-conscripted army fought them closely and doggedly, and could call in air strikes. Yet, historical comparison shows that the UK and Canadian fatality rate in Afghanistan during May 1 to September 17, 2006 was as bad as for the much larger Soviet force over 20 years ago: 19, 20 85 000 Soviets at outset of the 1980s, but 118 000 by 1985, 19 with deaths averaging 1577 a year in 1980–82, and 1848 in 1984–86. 20 And mirrored the fatality rate in guerrilla-fighting of the UK's Special Air Service in Oman, 1970–76. 21 Contemporary comparison—Iraq vs Afghanistan, 2006—showed that the fatality rate was 4-fold lower in Iraq but then rates in both theatres altered in opposite directions, so that each became as great as during major combat in Iraq in 2003. 2 Military fatality rates can, and do, change abruptly. Abruptness was exemplified in Afghanistan by the failure of our 70-day-ahead projection to anticipate as few as 11 UK and Canadian fatalities, despite having taken account of the clustering of military deaths. Suddenly changed fatality rates occur with, or without, alteration in the distribution of specific causes. 22, 23 In Iraq throughout 2006, half the military deaths were always due to IEDs despite a major up-regulation in hostilities. Two-thirds reduction in deaths in Afghanistan was cause-specific, however: no fatalities in the air, major reduction in deaths due to small arms fire and in non-hostile deaths. In 2006, air losses accounted for 1 in 20 fatalities in Iraq but claimed one in five lives lost in the very different landscape of Afghanistan. Spectacularly similar between Iraq and Afghanistan was the average number of deaths (1.52) per fatal IED incident, reflecting vehicle-associated clustering. Central roads and urban focus to fighting in Iraq vs open, tracked terrain in Afghanistan facilitate the deadly efficient use of IEDs in the former, as does cross-border access to supplies and technical know-how. Air losses and IEDs cause small size (2–6, cluster mean 2.5 deaths) or large (7+ fatalities) clusters of deaths. Occasional large clusters make for fraught short-term forecasting as there is insufficient time for observed and expected cluster counts to match up. Worse, change of tactics, strategy or tempo by the enemy or by our commanders, as when the British negotiated a Taliban withdrawal from Musa Qala, 18 gives the lie to short-term forecasting, as with UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan. Canada's high toll of fallen, 4 relative to deployment, may not have changed between periods, however—major air losses had contributed to both US (10) and UK (14) but not to Canadian fatalities in the earlier period. With seasonal and command changes again unfolding alongside the lottery of poppy eradication, ‘same pattern as before’ is doubtful for the 140 days to June 24, 2007. On current deployments and seasonal 60: 40 basis from Table 3 , we expect 25 UK and Canadian fatalities (as singleton deaths or in small clusters) but with added 24% chance of single large cluster, and 5% chance of two or more large clusters of deaths. The high death toll from our forces in Afghanistan in mid 2006 was halfway to the humanitarian disaster rate, 36.5 deaths/1000/year. 24 Fit, young soldiers were dying in war in Afghanistan at a rate greater than heroin-injecting exacts back home, 10/1000/year. 25 Why eradicate Afghanistan's opium poppies, which risks impoverishing local people and losing hearts and minds? Why not purchase instead—for use as diamorphine 25 or, more controversially, prescribed heroin? Some alliance of military, economist and public health minds is needed. Conflicts of interest: C.B.F. served 13 years in the Special Air Service, including in Oman, and is Appeals Director for Combatstress in Scotland. S.M.B. chaired the Royal Statistical Society's Working Party on Performance Monitoring in the Public Services, and resigned from an Office for National Statistics committee overseeing research access to national mortality and morbidity data because of decisions which threatened the integrity of a military study. S.M.B. has made donations to Combatstress. KEY MESSAGES Fatality rates changed in opposite directions in Iraq and Afghanistan between consecutive 140-day periods. Fatality rates became comparable during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007, both as high as during the initial phase of major combat in Iraq. IEDs accounted for 62% of hostile deaths in Iraq, much higher than in rural Afghanistan. The distribution of fatalities per fatal IED incident was the same, however. Specific causes of military deaths may differ not only between theatres of operation but also over time within-theatre, for example: small arms fire in Afghanistan. Due to operational changes, short-term forecasts of military fatalities can be wide of the mark, but should account for the chance of a large cluster of fatalities.  References  1 Bruce  I . Soldiers giving out sweets killed by bomber (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://www.thrherald.co.uk/news/70327.html 2 Bird  SM . UK statistical indifference to its military casualties in Iraq , Lancet , 2006 , vol. 367 (pg. 713 - 71 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  3 Sample  I . Study highlights perils of Afghan service  Guardian Unlimited 2006; September 7. Available at: http://guardian.co.uk/afghanistan/story/0,,1866822,00.html 4 Staples  S , Robinson  B . Canada's fallen. Understanding Canadian military deaths in Afghanistan , Foreign Policy Series , 2006 , vol. 1 (pg. 1 - 13 ) (September 2006: Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives) 5 Bird  SM . Military and public health sciences need to ally , Lancet , 2004 , vol. 364 (pg. 1831 - 33 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  6 Roberts  L , Lafta  R , Garfield  R , Khudhairi  J , Burnham  G . Mortality before and after the 2003 invasion of Iraq: cluster sample survey , Lancet Online , 2004 October 29  (Available at: http://image.thelancet.com/extras/04art10342web.pdf ) and Lancet 2004; 364 :1857–64 7 Burnham  G , Lafta  R , Doocy  S , Roberts  L . Mortality after the 2003 invasion of Iraq: cross-sectional cluster sample survey , Lancet Online , 2006 October 13  doi:10.1016/S0140-5736(06)69491-9 8 Bilukha  OO , Brennan  M , Woodruff  BA . Death and injury from landmines and unexploded ordnance in Afghanistan , JAMA , 2003 , vol. 290 (pg. 650 - 53 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  9 Norton-Taylor  R . Browne fears deeper Afghan conflict (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://www/guardian.co.uk/military/story/0,,1876558,00.html 10 BBC News ‘Militants’ die in Afghan clash (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://news/bbc/co/uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/5362796.stm 11 Royal Statistical Society Working Party on Performance Monitoring in the Public Services (chair: Professor Sheila M. Bird) , Performance Indicators: Good, Bad, and Ugly. , 2003 October 23 (Accessed July 11, 2006) Royal Statistical Society, London  Available at: http://www.rss.org.uk/pdf/PerformanceMonitoringReport.pdf 12 Hodgetts  TJ . UK statistical indifference to military casualties in Iraq (Letter) , Lancet , 2006 , vol. 367 pg. 1393  Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  13 Evans  M . More troops are rushed out to combat threat of the Taleban , Times , 2006 July 11 (pg. 6 - 7 ) 14 Smith  M . Military fears big Afghan losses , The Sunday Times , 2006 January 1 (Accessed July 6, 2006) Available at: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,2087-1965621,00.html 15 Smith  M . Army pleads for more troops after Afghanistan firefight , The Sunday Times , 2006 April 23 (Accessed July 6, 2006) Available at: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2087-2147806,00.html 16 Operation Enduring Freedom: Coalition Fatalities (Accessed September 22, 2006 and February 9, 2007) Available at: http://www.icasualties.org/oef/Afghanistan.aspx 17 List of nations in the Coalition (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multinational_force_in_Iraq 18 Sengupta  K . Britain hands over Afghanistan to US (Accessed February 12, 2007) The Independent Online Edition 2007: February 12. Available at: http://news.independent.co.uk/world/asia/article2237663.ece 19 Collins  GW . (retired US Air force lieutenant colonel and Fulbright Senior Fellow in Afghanistan) The War in Afghanistan (Accessed September 8, 2006) Available at: http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1986/ma 20 Grau  LW , Jorgensen  WA . Handling the wounded in a counter-guerrilla war: the Soviet/Soviet experience in Afghanistan and Chechnya  Available at: http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/handlwnd/handlwnd.htm (Foreign Military Studies Office Publications, accessed September 8, 2006) 21 Geraghty  T . Oman 1958-59; 1970-76. In: , The Special Air Service, 1950 to the Gulf War. Who Dares Wins , 2000 (ISBN 0 7515 0358 4). London Warner Books pg. 204  22 Norton-Taylor  R . Take UK troops out of Iraq, senior military told ministers , The Guardian , 2006 September 29 (pg. 1 - 2 ) 23 Bruce  I . Afghan suicide bombings soar as Taliban blame outsiders , The Herald , 2006 September 28  ( http://www.theherald.co.uk/news/70970.html ) 24 Bradt  DA , Drummond  CM , Richman  M . Complex emergencies in Indonesia , Prehospital Disaster Medicine , 2001 , vol. 16 (pg. 294 - 301 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  25 King  R , Bird  SM , brooks  SP , Hutchinson  SJ , Hay  G . Prior information in behavioural capture-recapture methods: demopgraphic influences on drug injectors’ propensity to be listed in data sources and their drugs-related mortality , American Journal of Epidemiology , 2005 , vol. 162 (pg. 1 - 10 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  26 Brimelow  A . Afghan poppies ‘could help NHS’ BBC News Online 2007; 23 January (Accessed 12 February 2007) Available at: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6311929.stm    Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association © The Author 2007; all rights reserved.        Topic:    afghanistan    iraq    military personnel        Issue Section:  War        Download all figures                              2,515  Views     21   Citations            View Metrics      ×       Email alerts   New issue alert    Advance article alerts    Article activity alert    Receive exclusive offers and updates from Oxford Academic     Close           More on this topic   Effectiveness of a pay-for-performance intervention to improve maternal and child health services in Afghanistan: a cluster-randomized trial  Cohort Profile: The Danish Conscription Database(DCD): A cohort of 728 160 men born from 1939 through 1959  Women in novel occupational roles: mental health trends in the UK Armed Forces  Health consequences of the first Persian Gulf War on French troops     Related articles in     Web of Science    Google Scholar       Related articles in PubMed      PTSD of rape after IS ("Islamic State") captivity.        Sulfation of Catecholamines and Serotonin by SULT1A3 Allozymes.        UK military doctors; stigma, mental health and help-seeking: a comparative cohort study.        Prospective use of unmanned aerial vehicles for military medical evacuation in future conflicts.         Citing articles via    Web of Science (21)    Google Scholar    CrossRef        Latest    Most Read    Most Cited         How does the association of general and central adiposity with glycaemia and blood pressure differ by gender and area of residence in a Malawian population: a cross-sectional study      Education Corner      An open-source, integrated pedigree data management and visualization tool for genetic epidemiology      Analysis of ‘sensitive’ periods of fetal and child growth      Cohort Profile: The Haematological Malignancy Research Network (HMRN); a UK population-based patient cohort                                          About International Journal of Epidemiology    Editorial Board    Author Guidelines    Contact the IEA    Facebook     Twitter    Purchase    Recommend to your Library    Advertising and Corporate Services    Journals Career Network             Online ISSN 1464-3685  Print ISSN 0300-5771  Copyright © 2018 International Epidemiological Association              About Us    Contact Us    Careers    Help    Access & Purchase   Rights & Permissions    Open Access      Connect    Join Our Mailing List    OUPblog    Twitter    Facebook    YouTube    Tumblr      Resources   Authors  Librarians  Societies  Sponsors & Advertisers  Press & Media  Agents     Explore   Shop OUP Academic  Oxford Dictionaries  Oxford Index  Epigeum  OUP Worldwide  University of Oxford     Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide        Copyright © 2018 Oxford University Press  Cookie Policy  Privacy Policy  Legal Notice  Site Map  Accessibility  Get Adobe Reader            Close     This Feature Is Available To Subscribers Only  Sign In or Create an Account   Close    This PDF is available to Subscribers Only  View Article Abstract & Purchase Options   For full access to this pdf, sign in to an existing account, or purchase an annual subscription.   Close                             Log In  ·  Sign Up         Search Entire Site Search Forum Advanced Forum Search Expand for more options.      + Discuss & Interact Forum, Reviews & More        Forum  Forum Home  University Forums A-Z    Top Forums  College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League    Featured Discussions           + Find a College Search For Your Best Fit        College Search Tool   Find the best school—for you.  Use this tool to search by categories such as major and location. You can then use filters to fine tune your results.  Start Searching     Find matching schools based on...  How Do I Start Choosing a College?  Before you ask which colleges to apply to, please consider the following.  Mistakes College Process Rookies Make  Majors and College Search  Your College Major: What to Choose?  Campus Visit Tips When Tours Won’t Fit    Recent Campus Reviews          + Read &
            Learn College Articles & Advice        Articles & Blogs  Browse All Articles  Expert Blogs   Admit This Expert opinions on the college admissions process!    Ask the Dean Read answers to questions about the college admissions process, financial aid, and college search by College Confidential’s resident expert!       Article Categories  College Search  Preparing for College  College Admissions  Paying for College  Campus Life  Majors & Careers  Graduate School  Studying in the U.S.    Popular Tags:       The Latest          + Free
            Resources Tools for Students & Parents        Scholarship Search  Search from over 3 million scholarships worth more than $13 billion.  Find Money    College Search Tool    Start Searching    Online Calculators  Academic Index Calculator  We'll help you estimate your AI, which is used by some schools to summarize the academic
                                accomplishments of applicants.  Financial Aid Calculator  College affordability is important for just about everyone these days, and it's handy to
                                get an idea of how much aid you might be eligible for.    More Good Stuff  25 Tips from the Dean eBook  Recommended Books  College Rankings                 Welcome to College Confidential!  The leading college-bound community on the web    Sign Up For Free   Join for FREE ,
            and start talking with other members, weighing in on community discussions,
            and more.  Also, by registering and logging in you'll see fewer ads and pesky
            welcome messages (like this one!)    As a CC member, you can:   Reply to threads, and start your own.  Post reviews of your campus visits.  Find hundreds of pages of informative articles.  Search from over 3 million scholarships.           Forum Home  Latest Posts  Activity  Unanswered Best Of...     Find A College   College Search  CampusVibe     Top Forums   College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League          Featured Threads    Are Waiting Lists Out of Control?  — Dave_Berry    4 Ways to Increase Odds of Winning College Scholarships  — Dave_Berry    Low-Income, First-Generation Students Have—Finally—Established a Beachhead at Ivy League School  — Dave_Berry    Princeton, Others Aim to Accept More Low-Income Students  — Dave_Berry              Home  /   College Discussion  /  College Confidential Cafe    We are excited to announce a new role on College Confidential: The Forum Champion! Read all about it and apply now .  New Discussion I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008    edited January 2008   in College Confidential Cafe      I really want to enlist in the national guard. But at the same time I don't want to fight in Iraq and get killed.  Even if I don't fight...is there a possibility I will die? Please Help!  Post edited by ishkabob on January 2008 0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook       « 1 2 3 »      Go  Replies to: I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       #1     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       bum 10 char  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #2     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       your chance of dying in the guard is not much higher than your chance of dying at home. your chance of getting injured is pretty high if you do enter combat, but dying in combat is rare.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #3     GoldShadow    Registered User  Posts: 6,160  Senior Member      January 2008       CC is probably not the right place to ask this question.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #4     tomatoking    Registered User  Posts: 847  Member      January 2008       don't worry.there are re-spawn points.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #5     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       whats a re-spawn point?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #6     snoopyiscool    Registered User  Posts: 18,082  Senior Member      January 2008       If you go to Iraq there is always a possibility to get killed. If you don't want a chance of going to Iraq that isn't going to happen.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #7     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       And -- how do you feel about being expected to kill other people? If you're OK with killing enemy soldiors, how'd you feel about accidentally killing civilians including children?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #8     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime? and of course there is the certainty that we will all die at some point.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #9     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       well, i don't want to kill anyone....I don't want to be on the front line  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #10     runforfun529    Registered User  Posts: 2,135  Member      January 2008       You don't have to go into the infantry in order to join the national guard.   www.1-800-GO-GUARD.com | MOS LIST   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #11     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       "but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime?"  Actually, there's not a large possibility of being killed anywhere when you are a relatively young U.S. citizen. Most people in the U.S. live until their 70s.  Certainly, going into combat places one at a higher than normal risk of being killed or maimed (and the injuries that people are surviving in this war are horrendous.).  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #12     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       A quick Google yielded this USA Today article from 2004. You could check to find more current info.  "WASHINGTON — In a reversal of trends from past wars, part-time soldiers in the Army National Guard are about one-third more likely to be killed in Iraq than full-time active-duty soldiers serving there, a USA TODAY analysis of Pentagon statistics shows. According to figures furnished by the military branches, the active Army has sent about 250,000 soldiers to Iraq, and 622 have been killed. That works out to one death for every 402 soldiers who have deployed. About 37,000 Army Guard soldiers have been sent to Iraq since the war began and 140 have died there — one fatality for every 264 soldiers who have served, or about a 35% higher death rate.  There are several reasons for the greater death rates among so-called part-time soldiers, who generally drill one weekend a month and two weeks during the summer when there's no war. The Pentagon has called up thousands of part-time troops for tours of a year or more in Iraq. Some of the most dangerous missions, including driving convoys and guarding bases and other facilities, frequently are assigned to Guard and reserve troops. Iraqi insurgents have attacked convoys with roadside bombs and rocket-propelled grenades, and a Tennessee Guardsman publicly complained to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week about the lack of armor on some vehicles...."   USATODAY.com - Rate of Guard deaths higher   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #13     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       AP story from 2005: "WASHINGTON — The National Guard and Reserves are suffering a strikingly higher share of U.S. casualties in Iraq, their portion of American military deaths nearly doubling since last year.  Reservists have accounted for one-quarter of all U.S. deaths since the Iraq war began, but the proportion has grown over time. It was 10 percent for the five weeks it took to topple Baghdad in the spring of 2003, and 20 percent for 2004 as a whole.  The trend accelerated this year. For the first nine months of 2005 reservists accounted for 36 percent of U.S. deaths, and for August and September it was 56 percent, according to Pentagon figures.  The Army National Guard, Army Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve accounted for more than half of all U.S. deaths in August and in September — the first time that has happened in consecutive months. The only other month in which it even approached 50 percent was June 2004..."   The Seattle Times: Nation & World: Reservist deaths high in Iraq   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #14     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       this sucks....i want to help me country but if I do.....I know I'll probably die...thats my luck!  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #15     kjcastillo1990    Registered User  Posts: 422  Member      January 2008       According to my sis, there's a higher chance of you getting shot in Washington DC alone than getting killed in Iraq as a National Guardsman. My sister is in the National Guard, and she was deployed last month. She is now in Baghdad, and her role there is being military police (that is, patrolling areas, guarding prisons, other guarding posts, etc).  If you are not in the field, the one of the only risks you have is being injured by an I.E.D (improvised explosive device) All those articles in the previous posts were from 2-3 years ago--I'm pretty sure the death rates in Iraq have gone down by a lot now.  Joining the National Guard is a really big responsibility, but you also gain a lot of respect in doing so. The army itself will train you to become a soldier as well as a leader. It's the best way to help your country....that is, if you're up to it. ;)   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook        « 1 2 3 »      Go    This discussion has been closed.                 Helpful Links    Home  College Search  Admissions  Paying For College  College Rankings  Campus Life    Online Degrees  College Topics  Ask The Dean  Discussion  About  Contact    Press  Privacy  Rules  Terms of Service  Site Map      About College Confidential  Welcome to the leading college-bound community on the Web!  Here you'll find hundreds of pages of articles about choosing a college, getting into the college you want, how to pay for it, and much more. You'll also find the Web's busiest discussion community related to college admissions, and our CampusVibe section!         ©2001-2018 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WORLDWIDE         This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Navy SEALs  U.S. Air Force  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Navy (USN)  U.S. Army  United States Armed Forces  Probability (statistics)  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of me dying in different branches of the armed forces? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 19 Answers   Eric Tang , Officer at U.S. Army Answered Feb 27, 2012 · Upvoted by  Paul Frick , Former infantry Staff Sergeant, United States Marine Corps. 3 combat tours, 3 years as an Embassy G… and  Stephen Adams , U. S. Army, Infantry, Drill Sergeant, NCOIC Ft Lee Ops & Trg · Author has 376 answers and 2m answer views Whether or not you get deployed into a war-zone plays a large role in probability of death. I'm assuming you indeed are interested in probability of death in a war-zone. Let me use the Iraq War as a case study. Let me start with this: as a whole, you are 2.5 times more likely to die as a US military member than as a healthy, young civilian in the United States (Preston and Buzzel, 2007). Let's break this down further. There are many factors that contribute to risk of death. According to a study conducted by Preston and Buzzel in 2007, the following factors significantly affect risk of death: (1) branch of service, (2) component of service, (3) rank, and (4) age and sex. I will break down each of these four factors in the following paragraphs. 1. Branch of Service . Branch of service is broken down into Army, Marines, Air Force, and Navy (the Coast Guard was not included in this study). If you are a Marine, you are 2 times more likely to die compared to the Army, 10 times more likely to die when compared to the Navy, and 20 times more likely to die when compared to the Air Force. In fact, if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. 2. Component of Service. This pertains to whether or not you are in Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard. Death rates for Active Duty Army soldiers are 3 times more than Reserve Army soldiers. Army National Guard has an intermediate risk of death. Marines have a high risk of death regardless of component. 3. Rank. Enlisted men have 40% higher mortality rates than Officers. There are exceptions to this though. Army Lieutenants have a 19% higher mortality rate compared to all Army troops combined. Marine Lieutenants have a 11% higher mortality rate compared to all Marines. 4. Age and Sex. Younger military personnel have a higher chance of dying. Males are 5.5 times more likely at risk of dying compared to females. It's interesting to note that Marines are disproportionately young. 64.7% of Marines deployed to Iraq were aged 24 and younger, compared to the Army's 39.5% To sum everything up, if you're young, male, a Marine, and enlisted, you have the highest chance of dying. If you're a young male in the Army or Army National Guard, you have a moderate chance of dying. If you're in the Air Force or Navy, you have a low chance of dying. If you are female, you have a lower chance of dying. I hope this answer paints a clear picture for you. 317.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? Ask New Question Quora User Answered May 20, 2015 · Author has 191 answers and 112.4k answer views I think that it's more dependent on who you're at war with than what branch you're in. I mean, on the surface you would think that infantry, marines, they would get mowed down.  And generally they do, not the supply clerks and nurses, but grunts that didn't do to great on the asvab. Then, what about these modern wars where you're fighting among these lands that have been redirected to go through another pre-industrial age?  If you're in the Navy and not a bomber pilot, you're probably not going to get killed.  It's the twenty year old running around the depleted uranium-saturated streets that's going to get it. So, what if it's not war with the peasants?  In the World Wars whole ships filled with people in the Navy were killed at once.  The United States built Liberty Ships, shitty, low-quality, high-volume pigs that planners assume would be sunk in vast quantities.  There were no illusions. In fact, I've read that if you were in one of the countries involved in the European theater, it wasn't a bad idea to be in the ground forces because there all the civilians were getting vaporized, blown to bits, and incinerated too. Of course, if we went to war with Russia then a majority of officers flying an F-22 would not come back.  All of them flying a JSF-35 (is it in service?) would be dead.  Possibly all the Air Force guys at bases where they're launching F-22's would be bombed and strafed after all the F-22's had been blown out of the sky.  Maybe the infantry guys would get together with the Russian guys and watch the mess play out above.  "How long did yours go to college?  Ours are there for four years." And the Navy at war with Russia... everyone on those aircraft carriers would be a bit more nervous than when it's the peasant opposing force. So: Peasant enemy, combat MOS infantry and Marines.  Second world enemy, Navy sailors and officers alike and Air Force officers. Disclaimer: I know, we're not really fighting peasants.  We're just weaving in and out of peasants where the bad guys are hiding, dressed as peasants.  I mean no offense by pointing out the difference between a peasant army and a big army that is wearing matching costumes. 21.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Deborah Gahm , Mil spouse for over 20 years Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 771 answers and 1.1m answer views I have to agree with Gary Leverich .  You are more likely to die due to accidents (including drunk driving) than combat. According to the latest statistics I could find: In 2009, there were 1,519 active duty deaths.  The highest percentage of those deaths were due to accidents, 28.5 per 100,000.  They do not differentiate between alcohol related accidents and normal accidents.  21.5/100,000 were due to hostile actions. There were about 1.6 million active duty members that year. For comparison, an average of 1,825 college students die each year from only alcohol related incidents alone. Active Duty Military Death Rates Per 100,000 Serving National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) 103.2k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Allen Inks , former Electrician's Mate First Class - EM1 (SS) at United States Navy (1972-1980) Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.5m answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? EDIT: The question changed; it originally was asking about survival chances in various military branches if “war broke out in the US”. I’ve not got enough time to change the answer to fit the new question. Okay, “War broke out in the US” is kind of vague. Do you mean A) civil war , for example, another civil war between Republicans and Democrats? Do you mean B) war with a foreign power inside the US, as in Canada and Mexico go in cahoots to attack and invade the US? Or do you mean C) nuclear war, as in one of the Kims fulfills the dynasty’s self-destructive tendencies, and launches several nuclear missiles at the US, which in turn, turns that failing country into a nice pristine glass parking lot for KIA and Hyundai factory overflow - which in turns results in some further nuclear missile strikes against the US from another country…who shall remain nameless? Note that I am assuming that option A is non-nuclear - though sometimes from the rhetoric from the far right and the far left, I’m not sure. I wish everyone would just wise up, vote Libertarian, and leave the Democratic and Republican parties on the ash heaps of history, but … I digress. A) In the case of a civil war, I will assume that the main purpose of the Republican and Democratic Navies will be to blockade the coasts of the land held by the other side, and to break the Naval blockades of the other side. I expect that the naval nuclear weapon assets controlled by each side will be sent to far-flung bases to wait out the war, and that we will be smart enough (or at least military leaders will be… I can’t vouch for ANY of the politicians) to not target things like nuclear weapons storage facilities, Minuteman missile silos, or nuclear power plants. The Air Force, Army and Marines will likely be highly involved. Likewise, Coast Guard highly involved doing blockade work (but lacking subs or significant anti-submarine capability, will mostly be targets for submarines). Best bet for survival: Navy. B) In the case of invasion by the frozen Canadians and the highly motivated Mexicans (NOTE TONGUE FIRMLY IN CHEEK - this is hypothetical and I’m just teasing our friends across the borders - actually, I know of at least 4 Canadians who are partially defrosted.) Again, I would expect the Army and Marines to be highly involved in repulsing those dastardly foes from our hallowed soil. Lots of bullets flying on all three sides… The Air Force should be flying tactical support for our ground troops… but by this time will probably have retired the A-10 (not sexy enough a mission for the Generals), so they will be flying F-35s and F-22’s to gain air superiority, and finding out that the F-35 makes a shitty replacement for an A-10. Hopefully, the Marines will have plenty of their planned V-22 Osprey gunship variants to augment Army helicopter crews to support the ground pounders. The Air Force will also be using B-52s that are on Medicare and collecting Social Security to support the troops using smart bombs, and using B2’s to bomb Ottawa, Mexico City, and other strategic location… but sparing important cultural sites like Senor Frog’s in Los Cabos. The Coast Guard….guarding the coasts to prevent opening a third or fourth front…likely, not too too involved. Maybe some riverine warfare. Navy…. using aircraft carriers to assist our North American Free Trade partners that they really want to go back home, or there won’t be a home to go back to. Best bet for survival: Coast Guard… followed by Navy. C) Multiple Exchange Massive Nuclear war: Substantially everybody dies. Best bet for being amongst the last to die: Submarine crew (Navy) or Minute Man Missile launch officers (Air Force). My best guess would be the Navy would be the last to go… more mobility to avoid fallout (authority for this “guess” - “On the Beach” (book or movie)). My advice re nuclear weapons sounds just like Nancy Reagan’s advice on drugs, “Just Say No”. Funny coming from a guy who spent 4 years living amongst 16 thermonuclear tipped SLBMs, doing his part to make sure my sub was ready when the call came, right? Nope… not funny. 27.9k Views · View Upvoters   Riccardo P , studied at University of Zurich Answered May 25, 2017 Eric Tang answered this question and got a lot of upvotes. He wrote: “[…] if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. […]” Really man??? Eric, I really have nothing personally against you or anyone else that wrote something similar here, but honestly, this is one of the most misleading statements I ever heard/read. Please STOP fooling young people with this kind of statements. It highly suggest to enroll in Military because you may apparently live longer! But this is very obviously big b#$@=%÷! To enroll in Military means (1.) to become a killer and (2.) to be exposed to a much higher probability to die young if you are sent to a war zone. How much higher the probability is, is less important in my opinion. But it certainly is higher if you “play around” with arms. I mean, even the government tells you not to travel in war zones . Why? Because it is dangerous. You could die. Higher risk to die. I would really not trust any statistics that suggest that the probability to die is lower if you enroll yourself in Military. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Gary Leverich , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout · Author has 472 answers and 2.9m answer views Combat is of course risky.  But most of the military never sees actual combat, they serve in support roles.  Even support roles carry their own level of risk.  Advanced weaponry is designed to take out support functions.  So working on an airfield well away from actual combat still carries a level of risk.  Other than combat, the highest cause of death in the military (all branches) is alcohol.  I was stationed with the 101st Airborne Division.  That division has a sign at the front of the base (at least used to) counting the days since the last alcohol related traffic death.  If we made it 101 days, we would get a day off.  We rarely made it 101 days. In 15 years of service, including 6 years in the Marine Corps with 2 combat deployments, and 9 in the Army with one peacekeeping mission, I lost 1 soldier.  That's because he wrapped his car around a tree after a weekend binge. 44.9k Views · View Upvoters   Daniel Kearns , former Paratrooper 82nd Airborne at U.S. Army Answered Mar 25, 2013 · Author has 1k answers and 4.8m answer views Generally, it matters not which branch you pick. What matters is what job you pick in that branch. Known as an MOS (Military Occupation Specialty), some are much more dangerous than others. For example, 11B Infantry is an MOS in the US Army that would be considered much more dangerous than say 36B Financial Management Technician.  There would be very few, (read: no), instances where a 36B might see combat. In todays US Army, virtually every Regular Army 11B will see some variation of combat at some point. Every US Military Branch has jobs known as Combat Arms.  These jobs will always be more dangerous than Support jobs. 36k Views · View Upvoters   Clell Harmon , Retired USN. Career SSBN Sailor Answered Jul 6, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout and Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 817 answers and 2.4m answer views In my experience, the leading cause of death among service members, is being stupid. Young men, no matter how intelligent they are, are prone to being stupid.  The proximity of other young men amplifies stupidity. Youtube is proof of this, but it existed long before anyone thought about putting videos on the internet. Take poorly maintained cars, an idiot behind the wheel looking to impress his passengers, lubricate with a bit of alcohol and you get dead people. I was in the Navy for more than 20 years. In my time in service, I buried five of my shipmates because of auto accidents.  None to combat, one to catestrophic equipment failure on a Submarine, two to drowning (one 'on duty' and one from being stupidly drunk and finding a rip current), and one to an undiagnosed aneurysm that burst when we were underway. 22.5k Views · View Upvoters   Rachel Bolyard , World traveler, appreciator of well built things Answered May 5, 2017 · Author has 260 answers and 199.2k answer views Your chances of dying in an auto accident are like 2000x higher than dying in any modern combat scenario. You're literally safer in a war zone than driving yourself out for dinner tonight. 30k people die per year in the US driving and 14 soldiers died in combat in 2016. Most jobs in the military, even if you're in a combat zone, don't involve shooting. You may end up with some convoy duty, which is by far the most risky thing to do, because a) it's driving and military vehicles are top heavy, rolling over and killing their operators routinely in training or combat, and b) convoys are symbols of power and occupation therefore insurgents like to target them. Training fatalities in the armed forces are in the hundreds per year per force. The Navy is probably the most dangerous because they have the most machinery and moving parts. Still though, from the stats, you're still safer serving than driving… 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jatavius Williams , Been an United States Army Drill Sergeant For 13yrs Now. Answered Apr 6, 2016 Son there are NO CHANCES in the art of fighting for your country. Each branch is fighting forr the same purpose and that purpose is most likely to fight for freedom. If you get shot were going to call "Medic!,Medic!" If the Medic is down "Carl! Carl! Get On The Radio" If that Happens Thats your Ass son. 7k Views · View Upvoters   Luke Han , Student Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 147 answers and 272.6k answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? The Coast Guard operates under the U.S Department of Homeland Security during peacetime, but can be transferred to the U.S Department of the Navy by Congress or the President. But it is technically part of the military. The Coast Guard would probably be your best bet. In World War II, 241,093 people served in the Coast Guard. Out of the 241,093 people that served, 574 died in action. That’s literally a 0.2% death rate, almost non-existent. However, if we don’t consider the Coast Guard as part of the military, Air Force and Navy would probably be your best bet, especially the Air Force. 10.7k Views · View Upvoters   Christopher Sullivan , works at U.S. Army Answered Jan 25, 2016 · Author has 293 answers and 87.2k answer views It depends on your MOS and where you are deployed to. Then there is the unit to consider, if you have tools for leadership and your unit is completely ate up, chances are high even if you're in a relatively quiet area. If you're unit is on point, then you're chances of survival are pretty high even if you're hell so to say. 8.8k Views · View Upvoters   Gordon Wilson , studied at Florida Southern College Answered May 22, 2015 If you are not alright with risking your life do not go into the military.  No matter what job you do there is danger.  You can die in training... happens all the time.  My father was a pilot and lost a couple friends just in training exercises (faulty equipment, communication errors, etc)  All of the services may be at risk at some point.  So if you are not prepared for the danger of being in the armed forces I would not suggest it.  I would say your best bet would be to be a doctor but even then the base you are stationed at if during time of war could be bombed.  I know a buddy from high school who died in an accident during an Army training exercise.  I think the vehicle flipped or something.  So yeah you could die at anytime if you're in the armed forces.  That is part of the job description.. you might die. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters   Ashleigh Jennings Answered Mar 16, 2013 well, i suppose its half luck half ability. if you were to join the army, you could be put anywhere, meaning that you could be dropped in a high combat area, where you are more likely to be hit. if you were to join the air force, you could be sitting at a desk finding targets, or in a plane potentially getting shot at. in the navy the boat could sink, and as a marine the odds of you dying anywhere is quite high... hope this helps. 6.5k Views · View Upvoters   Eliel Wu Answered Jan 20, 2016 Stats says you guys are wrong, the most dangerous branch to be in is the U.S Army. U.S Army 4,358 12-18 month deployments 3 month stand down and redeploys marines 1,394 6-7 month deployments 6 month stand down and redeploys The U.S Army has a large number of soldiers deployed in theater but only a small percentage in combat, the large number are none combat oriented whose job is to keep most of the bases running regardless of branch. If you want the hard and tough missions where your life is at risk the highest than join the Army. If you are looking for glory based on your branch, uniform appearance and what boot camp was like than the marines is for you. M M 7.8k Views · View Upvoters   Asa Waters , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Jul 21, 2015 http://www.nytimes.com/interacti... Army has the most deaths, basically 3 of every 5 people killed in combat is army, followed by Marines, navy and air force. In over 10 years of combat there's about 2000 deaths as of this article... Odds of dying are slim regardless. 943 Views   Jervis Fitzroy , lives in Northern Ireland Answered Feb 16, 2017 · Author has 988 answers and 196k answer views If you’re really bothered about it join the Chaplain’s Department. At least you’ll be well connected if you become one of the small number of Padres who have been killed in combat. 541 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at U.S. Army Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 155 answers and 119.6k answer views Depends on the nature of the war and where it's fought as well as against who. A ground war into China would not bode well for the Infantry and other guys on the ground however that's a total different proposition if you're asking us to take down some African Warlord. Same goes for air infiltrating Russian air Defence system would be a much greater undertaking then performing the same Mission in Africa. So it's all about what type of War being fought at that moment the capabilities of the enemy and the different Specialties that are most affected when adding that up. 556 Views · Answer requested by  Raulon Van Tassell   Stefan Johansson Answered Aug 26, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.6k answer views If you're worried of death,don't join the military. 521 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? How do I choose between the four branches of the US armed forces? Is ROTC considered a branch of the armed forces? Why do all branches of the United States Armed Forces have snipers? What is the safest major branch of the US armed forces? What branch of the U.S. Armed forces gets deployed most often? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Infantry  U.S. Army  Military What are the chances of me dying by joining the army infantry in the current war climate? I’m considering the 3 year contract. Update Cancel Answer Wiki 9 Answers   Victor Egorov , former Fort G Meade at U.S. Army Answered Oct 24, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies and  MIke Gentile , former Veteran  at U.S. Army (1988-1992) · Author has 596 answers and 807.4k answer views Your chances of becoming a casualty are quite low. I would not agree with with some of the other answers here and claims that “you have a higher chance to die in car crash” - this simply is not true. -So 3 year contract. -Infantry -Situation similar to last decade and a half of Iraq/Afghanistan proportions, in short an insurgency war. Off the bat, in three year congract you should only have enough time to train, get to your unit, deploy one time( 12 months) I’m using approximate numbers as I recall these to be during my time in the service. please find it within yourself to not argue or correct me on every number I chose to use for this approximation. For a war time statistic of active combat action and hostility we could take a situation that I recall being off and on a norm 2005 -2012. So among a force of 100,000 US military Service members deployed 50 are KIA a month. Some months have been better some have been worse. A low 20/30-for a slow month, while on a bad month 100+ ) In addition each month could have 100 more experience loss of limb, severe burns, loss of cognitive function/brain damage, spinal cord injury, complete loss of eye sight… life changing injuries. Plus another 200 service members are wounded to various lesser degrees. These injuries and deaths mainly distributed among combat arms soldiers. Infantry, light mechonised, MPs, combat engineers( route clearance) EOD, JSOC units. Realistically about 30,000- 40,000 out of total troop strength would sponge up most of the casualties and injuries. Let’s say 2/3s of it. So out of 100,000 with focus on 30,000 that have spent a year in combat zone as combat arms soldiers during war time mission 50*(2/3)*12 = 400 would be KIAs 100*(2/3)*12 =800 gravely injured 200*(2/3)*12=1600 non life changing injury( gunshot, concussion, loss of fingers,partial eyesight) While the other 1/3 of deaths and injuries will distribute among cooks, supply, air assets, medics, admin, engineers, mechanics, and on. So, just to ballpark on a single 3 year contract with a 12 month deployment into an active combat zone as we have witnessed over last decade and a half: You have about 1- 1,2% chance of loosing your life. 2–3% chance of being gravely injured. 4–7% of being wounded. So it’s a little above national highway injury statistic but it’s not terribly bad either. All and all your chances of getting “fucked up bad” are below 5% Getting “Hurt” are below 7% On back end, I’d recommend looking up monthly stats for suicides among US combat veterans… it’s somewhat high and troubling. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? Ask New Question   Matt Blackshaw , Professional Dog Walker Answered Nov 1, 2017 If you join any of the Armed forces regular or reserve you should make a conscious decision that your commitment will place you in dangerous situations. Combat arms Corps and Infantry in particular are some of the most dangerous trades to be employed in. As a potential candidate for any service you must give serious consideration that your unit and yourself WILL be deployed and you WILL be placed in dangerous situations in training and on operations. Army’s fight wars and wars involve killing the enemy, It's a two sided thing so if you are trying to defeat the enemy the enemy will be trying to defeat you by any means possible including killing you. Its good that you ask this question because it means you are thinking of the consequences of your decision to join the Military and FIGHT. War, Killing, Catastrophic injuries, Suffering and the psychological effects of being exposed to these elements are not subjects recruiters like to embellish during the recruitment process. 2.1k Views · View Upvoters   Jonathan Keiler , Army veteran Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by  Joe Francis , Sergeant in Marine Corps, Officer in US Army, 26 years service · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.8m answer views Joining the Army infantry usually does not cause death. If it did, they would have a hard time maintaining any units at all. The risks of just dropping dead after you join, since you generally have to be young and fit to get in the Army infantry, are also extremely low. In the current climate, the risks of an infantryman being killed in an accident or in combat, are also pretty low. However, that is always subject to change. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Danny Perez , former Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic at U.S. Army (2013-2015) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies · Author has 178 answers and 24.8k answer views IF you get deployed to a combat zone then your chances are just as any. I can’t speak for Infantry. I was a mechanic, a POG. Lol. What I can tell you is that it is a lot different now than it was when the heat of the war had just started. My suggestion, as a POG, lol, join a POG MOS. If you score well enough in your ASVAB you can get more jobs available to you. Just a thought. No soldier is ever safe in a combat zone. There’s always indirect fire coming into the bases no matter how much of a fortified position we have built. 711 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by LendingTree Veterans could receive up to $42,000 with these VA benefits. Many American veterans are missing out on benefits that could save them thousands. Learn More at lendingtree.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Stefan Johansson Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.6k answer views Dude,if you join the military,you also agree to risk your health and life if necessary. Being a soldier is not just a job,it’s also the pride of serving your country,and if needed die for it. If you’re not mentally prepared for that,stay out of the military forces,go drive a school bus instead…. 501 Views · View Upvoters   Mike Moffatt , Retd. Grandmaster (Military Order) Knights Templar (1988-present) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 265.7k answer views You’ve got more of a chance being injured in a car accident, or being ridden in to by a cyclist than being killed in action. If you constantly worry about dying you’ll never do anything worthwhile in this life. 803 Views · View Upvoters   John Phillips , worked at U.S. Army Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 1k answers and 574.9k answer views 100% What ever your focus is, is your target. Death finds those that seek it. I do not want anyone dragging death to the battle. I want them to fight, and claw, and scream, kick, gouge, punch, whatever it takes. I want life. You bring that bastard with you, the Drills will see it. You will not make it through training. They will kick your narrow ass, chicken shit, death dragging self out. No one, and hear this carefully, no one will tolerate the talk of death. Death is always close. In battle, and in training, he is fed enough. The gates of Hell and Heaven are a damn freeway because of the wars. I have a daughter that has never seen peace. And now I answer a person about death. I hope, have never seen death. If so, then you understand all of this. 552 Views · View Upvoters   Yash Mor , studied at Rashtriya Military School - Bangalore (1981) Answered Oct 22, 2017 · Author has 191 answers and 35.2k answer views You may have higher chances of dying in road accident or due to a natural or man made catastrophe. Please don't even plan to join the Indian Army as it may not select people with negative attitude in life. 511 Views · View Upvoters   Prajakta , B.com Accounting and Taxation & Financial Markets, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar (2015) Answered Oct 22, 2017 You are already dead considering what you’ve asked. But anyways, don’t consider joining it. Army wouldn’t need you. 412 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Can you get into the infantry in your army contract? Can Egyptian women join the Egyptian Army infantry? If not, then what unit can they join? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units in Germany? What are the chances I would see combat if I joined the army infantry in 2018? Are we going to enter into World War 3 in 2017? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Armies (non-specific)  Indian Army  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of dying in the Army? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers   Krishna Kumar , Right Back at Wishwa Kings Football Club (2017-present) Answered Apr 13, 2017 The moment you become the part of India Army, you are dead. You are reincarnated and are about to embark on a new and breath taking journey. You are no longer the same person you were earlier, you are a changed peron with plethora of responsibilities on your shoulders. You are some of the finest and elite men and women of the country. Does it matter “ chances of dying in Army” you will eventually die one day, but it's good to sacrifice your life for millions of people. Martyrdom is not the end, it is the beginning! Jai Hind!! 739 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below What are the chances of you dying in the army or navy? How many people die in the army? What is the chance of dying today? What are the chances of dying in the Marines? What are my chances of dying while in the Navy? Ask New Question   Jyoti Prakash Nayak , I am a defense aspirant and have knowledge about wars. Answered Apr 16, 2017 · Author has 60 answers and 84.2k answer views A person has to die one day or another, irrespective of that he joins the Army or not. As said by our father of constitution, Dr. BR Ambedkar, “ Life should be great, it is not necessary to be long” And believe me, if you join the Army, I am sure that before dying, you must have done something great for the nation before giving your supreme sacrifice. Everyone has to die someday, but you have to decide that if you want to die without fulfilling your purpose of birth or after completing your duty. JAI HIND ! 801 Views · View Upvoters   Rishabh Kashyap , B.E. Indian Army & Jobs and Careers (2016) Answered Apr 6, 2017 I really dont get what you want to know by asking such question. I mean, Are you safe in your home ? No So whats the point of asking such question? Also MARK MY WORDS “ Those who have willing to join army doesnt think that they will die. The pride of serving the nation makes one a strong person, not everyone have guts to join army.” P. S. We all will die someday, so thats not the question i think. 350 Views · View Upvoters   Neha Rajpoot , Marketing employee Answered Apr 9, 2017 You know you have to die one day, yet you live your life. You don't even. Know what will happen to you the next day. Will you get hit by a truck? Will you have. Heart attack or anything of that sort! Still you keep doing your thing right? The Indian Army knows their job and for them the chances of getting hit by a bullet, bomb, grenade or any other blast are higher than any other individual. But they are doing their job irrespective of the fact that people ask senseless questions about them dying than to praise them ! 395 Views · View Upvoters   Gary Doyle , 15 years regular and reserve in the British Army Answered Apr 5, 2017 · Author has 770 answers and 930.8k answer views Add others have said, young males are less likely to die in the military than they are on active service. In Iraq, all those guys in bases and getting shot at lowered the number if deaths in total compared to if they had been back in Georgia drinkin’ and drivin’ or as reservists as travelling salesmen. I don't have access to the exact Iraq statistics but I saw them from twenty years ago and Operarional Tours save lives! 265 Views Quora User , Assistant Punjab Border Area Development Officer at Government of India Answered Apr 5, 2017 100% Same as for those who are not in the Army. You join Army or not, you are not going to come out of life, alive. Probability wise, you're more likely to die in a road accident or crime or by heart attacks than by joining most of the branches of Army. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters   Subhashis Ghosh , Electrical Engineer Answered Apr 5, 2017 · Author has 52 answers and 29.5k answer views Nobody dies in the army,he is martyred only and becomes immortal..soldiers can't die. Civilian dies….. 104 Views Related Questions How likely is it to die in the army? What are the chances of dying in surgery? What is the chance of dying from a stroke? How can I die without pain? What are the chances of dying this year? What are my chances in the Indian Army? What are the chances of dying from being stabbed once? What are the chances of dying being a Royal Marine? What are the chances of you dying in the USAF? How do you think you’ll die? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the chances of you dying in the army or navy? How many people die in the army? What is the chance of dying today? What are the chances of dying in the Marines? What are my chances of dying while in the Navy? How likely is it to die in the army? What are the chances of dying in surgery? What is the chance of dying from a stroke? How can I die without pain? What are the chances of dying this year? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Risk Management  Risk and Risks  Warfare  Death and Dying  Military History and Wars What is the true risk of being killed in war? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 10 Answers   Roland Bartetzko , former German Army, Croatian Defense Council, Kosovo Liberation Army Updated May 8, 2017 · Author has 676 answers and 33m answer views Statistics and absolute numbers can’t determine the “true risk” of an individual to be killed in a war. You can fight in a war with relatively few casualties on your side (like the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan) and still get killed. On the other hand, your whole unit might be wiped out in the bloodiest of conflicts and you are the only survivor. Important “relative”, non quantifiable risk factors are: Type of war: In a Guerrilla campaign, the insurgents usually have higher losses than the counterinsurgency forces. At least in the beginning, the government forces are stronger than their opponents. This is why you start a guerrilla campaign: you don’t have enough forces for a conventional war! Usually, a counterinsurgent force also has the technical superiority over the Guerrilla which is another factor to explain their low(er) casualty numbers. The Kosovo Liberation Army, for example, lost 18.7 % of its soldiers on the battlefield (17,500 soldiers, 3269 killed), while their enemy, the Serbian counterinsurgency forces, only lost 1.43 % of theirs (105,000 soldiers, 1500 killed). [1] In conventional wars, the casualty numbers between the different militaries involved are usually closer together and it doesn’t even matter which side has lost and which one has won the war: During Operation Barbarossa in WWII, the Soviets lost around 34 % of their soldiers (2.9 million soldiers, 1 million killed) fighting against the Germans, while the Germans with their Allies lost 26% of their soldiers (3.8 million soldiers, 1 million killed) on the Eastern front. [2] Tactics: Surprisingly, many combat soldiers do not die in firefights with the enemy, but in other combat related activities on the battlefield. A good example is the number of Navy SEALs and personal attached to them that got killed in Afghanistan: From the 55 Navy Seals killed in Afghanistan [3] , only 12 soldiers (or 21%) were killed through combat related injuries, but many more (33 soldiers or 78%) lost their lives for a number of very different reasons: 1 suicide 1 drowned in a river during a combat operation 3 died through IED’s, mines or non specified explosions 16 were helicopter crash victims 22 died when their CH-47 helicopter was shot down by an enemy RPG We can see that most soldiers died while they were transported in helicopters (38 SEALs or 69%). During the same time, only three SEALs were killed while travelling in jeeps or Armored Personnel Carriers. In war, tactics are often changed, because of the high number of casualties they “produce”. Especially important are “defensive tactics” like anti sniper tactics which, if properly applied, can save a lot of lives. Intelligence: To have correct and actionable intelligence available on the battlefield does not only make it easier to detect and kill the enemy, but also helps to avoid dangerous situations for your own troops, like ambushes, planned enemy attacks etc. Type of unit: If you are infantry, you can expect that your risk to get killed is higher than that of an artillery or logistics soldier, but not in every conflict. In many wars and especially in counterinsurgency campaigns there might be an equal number of killed soldiers in support units and combat troops. This can be explained with the character of the conflict. A Guerrilla army attacks where the enemy is weakest and a supply transport makes a much easier target than a well protected armored column near the frontline. Special forces, Quick Reaction forces, but also volunteer units have the highest casualty rates. This is due to the dangerous character of their assignments, but also because more “courage and engagement” is expected from them than from other units. Foreign volunteers on the frontline in Bosnia Material: Armored cars, Mine resistant vehicles, body armor, but also mine detecting equipment, ground radars and night vision equipment help keeping casualty numbers low. As I already mentioned, technical superiority also helps to reduce the number of your losses. Training: A well trained soldier has a higher chance to survive on the battlefield. A trained and well coordinated unit is more effective and will suffer fewer losses. Especially important in this regard is specialized pre-deployment training and training in the deployment zones. The better and longer the training, the lower the number of casualties. Experience: In combat the first weeks are the most dangerous. Even with the best training and preparation, there are things that can be learned only “on the job”. After a while, the soldiers become familiar with the battlefield and with their enemy and start to develop instincts that will help them to make the right decisions. Leadership: Military leaders always have to balance between their mission objective and the risk for their soldiers. This can vary, even in the same battalion or company. If you are too careful, you will never reach your objective, but on the other hand who dares does not always win. During World War II, many German Army and Waffen SS units were led by officers who were hungry for a medal and had little consideration for their own lives and the lives of their soldiers. As a result they sustained exorbitantly high losses which in the end contributed to Germany losing the war. Medical system: Often forgotten, the medics are the ones who decide between a gravestone or a purple heart. A good and effective medical system does not only boost morale but saves lives. This is maybe the single most important reason why the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan have sustained relatively few deadly losses. Individual character: A careful soldier has better chances to survive. There are many individual and group character traits that influence casualty numbers. To name just a few: Motivation: fanatics usually risk more and are therefore more prone to get wounded or killed. Emotions: hate for the enemy and love for your country will get you killed equally quickly. Personal beliefs: a soldier who believes that the cause for the war is right is more ready to risk his life than someone who is just”doing his job”. Intelligence: to be able to properly analyze a tactical situation is a big advantage and might save lives. National character and culture: Some nations are more risk averse than others. Usually Western countries value the life of an individual more than oriental societies. During the Croatian War of Independence, foreign volunteers from different nations had different casualty rates [4] , which could be explained, although not exclusively, by their national character: Hungary: 33 volunteers, 2 killed, 6 %Killed in Action Australia:15 volunteers, 1 killed, 6.7% Killed in Action The Netherlands: 27 volunteers, 7.4% Killed in Action Ireland: 10 volunteers, 1 killed, 10.0% Killed in Action England: 139 volunteers , 15 killed, 10.8 % Killed in Action France: 67 volunteers, 8 killed, 11.9 %Killed in Action United States, 18 volunteers, 3 killed, 16.7% Killed in Action Austria 10 volunteers, 2 killed, 20% Killed in Action Germany: 53 volunteers 14 killed, 26.4 % Killed in Action Although the samples are too small to have any scientific value, they show that soldiers in the same army and conflict, with the same tactics and training, still have very different probabilities to get killed. If combat losses are acceptable or not depends on the political system. A dictatorship can sacrifice a lot more soldiers before having to deal with domestic unrest than a democracy does. In other words: if you fight for a regime, your chances to get killed are higher. Luck: Many of the above mentioned factors are out of an individual’s control. You get drafted, don’t get the appropriate training and will be sent to war. Your officers are useless and your equipment old and of low quality. There isn’t much you can do. Often, an individual that volunteers for a non combat related military occupation has better chances to stay alive than a draftee. If the conflict continues for a long time however, these soldiers will also be sent to the frontlines and die. In the end, each individual’s risk of being killed in combat is the product of all the above mentioned factors and many more. If you are in a wartime military, as a volunteer or draftee, logistics or special forces, there is always the risk to get killed. You can lower your own personal risk by making the right decisions, but after that it’s out of your hands and it often comes down to sheer luck. Footnotes [1] ZYRTARE: Kjo është lista finale e dëshmorëve, invalidëve dhe veteranëve në gjithë Kosovën  - Aktuale - Zeri [2] Operation Barbarossa - Wikipedia [3] Our Fallen Heroes - Navy SEAL Foundation [4] 481 foreign volunteers from 35 countries defended Croatia in 1991-1995 23.8k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Ask New Question   Jon Davis , Military and Cultural Historian, Veteran of US Military Updated Aug 5, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views The risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11 estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660 which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we see that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see that total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. These figures do not account for job specialty, which will skew heavily towards infantry type units. I don't have data for this, but as the previous statistics probably surprised many, so will those of the infantry when they become available. Stats from: War in Afghanistan (2001–present) - 2,173 US KIA, 23,500 Coalition WIA (Majority US) Iraq War - 4,487 US KIA, 32,226 US WIA Estimations based on United States Department of Defense Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 29.2k Views · View Upvoters   Thomas Snerdley , No one is promised tomorrow. TODAY is the day. Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 1.7k answers and 8.6m answer views Slight digression: First of all, there is no War on Terror.  Terror is a tactic, not an actual enemy so by definition there is no way to declare war on it much less prevail.  Only Bush 43 and his neo-conservative chicken hawk apologizers are stupid enough to promulgate such a nonsense phrase.  How on earth did we survive 8 years of misrule by this coterie of idiots? To answer your question: We can make war less risky by better understanding the psychology and sociology of ourselves first, and then those of our "adversaries".  In the vast majority of instances we will find that there is no actual reason for hostility (the emotion) or hostilities (the action) . At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by making war unnecessary . If a conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by taking a great deal of time and effort to understand exactly what effects we wish to achieve and developing a method of achieving those effects that does not include violence.  Many conflicts have been resolved through negotiation, sanctions, embargoes, spycraft and the threat of force without actually engaging in organized violence. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by resolving the situation without violence. If a violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by enabling it to be fought by the smallest number of American participants likely to achieve our goals.  In practical terms this means attempting to have the people directly involved in that country (e.g., mujaheddin in Afghanistan, rebels in Syria) fight it themselves.  If necessary, America could support them by deploying small teams of special forces personnel supported by assets operating in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  In Afghanistan, when we operated with small teams of special forces troops organizing and assisting local fighters we experienced great success.  When we attempted to force the issue with huge, unwieldy Army and Marine units, we got bogged down and lost. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by reducing the number of American lives put in jeopardy to fight in a conflict. If a large scale violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by ensuring full-spectrum dominance in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  Again, commitment of large-scale ground forces is almost always counterproductive in general and is always counterproductive to the specific goal of making war less risky. Does this answer the question? " To subdue the enemy without fighting ... this is the acme of skill ."  -- Sun Tzu 3.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Colin D. Welch , I have read a lot about military history Answered Sep 24, 2012 · Author has 656 answers and 484.3k answer views I spoke with a guy who works for intelligence, he told me that a lot more positions in the Military are desk jobs. Logistics, Intelligence, operations, etc. He said that he never expected to use powerpoint this much. I would say that joining the army isn't a risk per se, its whether you're in a combat unit that it starts getting risky. 1.3k Views   Jon Mixon , Studied military actions from the Punic Wars to South Waziristan Updated Dec 4, 2012 · Author has 19.3k answers and 89.8m answer views The overwhelming majority of combatants in any war survive the conflict.  Having said that:you can't make war "less risky." Risk will always exist for both side although the side with greater technology and with better planning and logistics will almost always prevail. The only ways which might make warfare somewhat "safer" (itself a subjective term) are likely: For the stronger side to completely crush the opposing side as quickly and as violently as possible before the opponents can inflict significant casualties. Not to fight a war in the first place. 3.7k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Hooah means everything but no Updated Nov 17, 2011 · Author has 3.7k answers and 5.1m answer views We have mechanized it to the extent our technology permits, and will further mechanize it as technology allows us to. We now use drones with pinpoint accuracy, guns that can shoot around a corner, robots that can get up close and check situations out, and I can only surmise what's on the drawing board. The problem with this mechanization is if war is fought by machines, there are no consequences and that would take away a deterrent. This is a video, produced by the New York Times, is a few years old about the Army of the future but is worth watching nonetheless. http://www.nytimes.com/packages/... 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , A reader of all things historical, from the ancient to the recent. Answered Jun 10, 2013 · Author has 247 answers and 299.3k answer views I think how one approaches this question depends largely on how we view 'losing one's life.' It is easy to quantify the damage done in terms of number of deceased.  While advances in battlefield medicine and military technology allow us to consistently remove soldiers from harm's way and successfully treat more severe injuries, there is a psychological and emotional toll that war takes on the human mind that is almost impossible to avoid. For instance, a recent NY Times piece reports on post-traumatic stress in drone pilots: Distance from Carnage Doesn't Prevent PTSD for Drone Pilots . Shane Smith from VICE also recently had some interesting comments on the true human costs of war: In summary, I think that there will always be improvement in how a military can preserve its human capital, but there will always leave scars in the minds and hearts of those who see its true nature. 3k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Jun 10, 2013 War is, by its nature, a breeding ground of unpredictable events. By which I mean that every statistic from yesterday's war _might_ be completely irrelevant in the next one, by many orders of magnitude. What is the true risk of humanity ending due to a nuclear winter ? The conditional probability is probably close to one, but what is the probability of an all out nuclear war ? How can a rational person even try to associate a realistic (meaning verifyable) number ? Create a million alternative Earths and measure how many blow themselves up ? It's a non-scientific question. 764 Views   Aaron Anderson , I am a recent graduate from King’s College London with a degree in Intelligence and International Security ... Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 55 answers and 87.8k answer views If the rules were the same for each side fighting in the wars - then maybe less risk. The discourse on war is how military commanders perceive wars ought to be fought. When opposing sides fight outside this framework things get messy. I think a recent example of increased risk is asymmetric warfare between a large state and say a non-state actor like an insurgency. One could use the mujahideen in Afghanistan during the 1980s and the Taliban as examples. I also don't think technological advances and state superiority means a victory- Soviets 1980s. My point is that when rules are established on how wars ought to be fought, standards and methods of operations are understood by each side.  Expectations of what the  adversary is planning may be predicted. Outside this framework it can be pretty messy. This may help to explain why the Obama administration has chosen drones to target insurgent and terrorist groups. As written in Wired for War the drones may provide ~ an asymmetric solution for an asymmetric problem. Of course, however, there's always risk. The fog of war is unavoidable, but managing it is possible I imagine. 1.7k Views   Richard Wagner , Master's Library Administrator (1972) Answered Feb 14, 2018 · Author has 352 answers and 21.8k answer views Over a long period it is less than leading a normal civilian life. A list of causes of death would show it being near the bottom. Of course there are periods of intense combat when it temporarily increases. For the period from 1950 to date it is probably less than auto accidents, numerous illnesses, etc. 71 Views Related Questions Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Is it true that war is inevitable? Is it true that mosquitoes have killed more humans than all the wars in history? Will the next World War be a civil war? Are wars legal or illegal, or can wars be neither? What principles would you be willing to go to war, risk your life and kill people? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Military History and Wars What are the chances a us soldier will bekilled or injured in afghanistan? Update Cancel ad by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 3 Answers   ABCDiamond , studied Financial Accounting & History at Grammar Schools Answered Feb 17, 2017 · Author has 5.5k answers and 1.2m answer views This is an old question, but it popped up for me, and I began looking before I saw the date. But the figures are: U.S. fatalities per year in Afghanistan according to Operation Iraqi Freedom 2001 - 7 2002 - 51 2003 - 43 2004 - 57 2005 - 125 2006 - 181 2007 - 226 2008 - 293 2009 - 510 2010 - 708 2011 - 560 2012 - 393 2013 - 154 2014 - 74 2015 - 27 2016 - 15 As of October 18th, 2016, there have been 2,386 U.S. military deaths in the War in Afghanistan. 1,834 of these deaths have been the result of hostile action. 20,049 American service members have also been wounded in action during the war. 91 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below Is the US government doing enough for the injured war soldiers and veterans in terms of medical help? Are US Marines considered soldiers? What difficulties did the US and Australian soldiers face in Vietnam? How would this impact the soldiers? What did Commonwealth soldiers think about US soldiers? What are differences in how soldiers in Vietnam fortified Fobs and how soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan fortify FoBs? Ask New Question   Mike Delms , Former infantry soldier, U.S. Army Answered Feb 17, 2013 Weird question. It depends which trade you are in, your mission, your platoon and what position you are within that platoon. Obviously combat arms trades like infantry and artillery have a higher chance for injury. Having a radio on your back will also increase your chance. Too many variables to give a percentage. However, all combat arms trades are fully aware that there is a serious risk of injury or death. 412 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? promoted  by Syracuse Online Business An online MBA for military members and veterans. Syracuse's online MBA offers GMAT waivers to military members and veterans. See if you qualify! Learn More at onlinebusiness.syr.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Dave Toms , Psych grad, humanist, and licensed shit disturber Answered Dec 2, 2012 · Author has 410 answers and 353.9k answer views The Pentagon has numbers, no doubt, but unfortunately I don't! (why not try under Access to Information?) In any war that lasts for a while, a particular soldier on either side has a high probability of being killed or injured! Only a modest percentage walk home on their own two feet! 224 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions What are the best troops of WW2? What did WWII soldiers fear? What did the US soldiers that died in Afghanistan and Iraq die for? Did the US win the war in Afghanistan? How are German WWII veterans treated today? Did soldiers avoid shooting at medics? Why did Indians not help the British during World War II? Did injured or sick soldiers in the Korean War go to Japan? Why do soldiers die? Why are US soldiers who fought in Vietnam so proud? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Is the US government doing enough for the injured war soldiers and veterans in terms of medical help? Are US Marines considered soldiers? What difficulties did the US and Australian soldiers face in Vietnam? How would this impact the soldiers? What did Commonwealth soldiers think about US soldiers? What are differences in how soldiers in Vietnam fortified Fobs and how soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan fortify FoBs? What are the best troops of WW2? What did WWII soldiers fear? What did the US soldiers that died in Afghanistan and Iraq die for? Did the US win the war in Afghanistan? How are German WWII veterans treated today? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      What happens after a U.S. military member is killed serving overseas  - Duration: 2:52.  Washington Post  1,316 views     2:52      United States Marine Corps - DON'T JOIN Before Watching This!  - Duration: 4:52.  MarineCorpsHQ.com  1,757,233 views     4:52      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      Dying Marine veteran gets one last wish  - Duration: 1:03.  KOCO 5 News  204,130 views     1:03      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      Jesus Till I Die | Military Motivation  - Duration: 4:01.  RangerJesse Motivation  600,322 views     4:01      The Fallen of World War II  - Duration: 18:31.  Neil Halloran  3,434,706 views     18:31      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      Girlfriend Of Navy SEAL Who Died During Training Believes It Could Be Murder  - Duration: 2:43.  Inside Edition  407,886 views     2:43      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      Ask A Marine: Deployment Experience  - Duration: 2:16.  Marine Corps Recruiting  69,031 views     2:16     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      Which Military branch should I join? | What is the best branch of the military to join?  - Duration: 15:16.  Kyle Gott  289,255 views     15:16      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      TOP 10 REASONS MARINES LEAVE THE MILITARY..  - Duration: 12:59.  Rod Keller  248,321 views     12:59      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      Explaining US Army Warrant Officer rank  - Duration: 8:16.  Christopher Chaos  113,953 views     8:16      3 Things Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You  - Duration: 8:01.  Matt Ward  103,244 views     8:01      Day in the Life of a Soldier: CAN I KEEP MY MILITARY GEAR?  - Duration: 10:07.  ARCHIEzzle  56,833 views     10:07      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...          The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design What Were a U.S. Soldier's Odds of Dying in Each War? Kyle VanHemert 3/02/11 11:00am Filed to: data point Filed to: data point data point wars Stats Warfare 154 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink Our perceptions of wars are pushed and pulled by myriad forces—their causes, their outcomes, their places in our national narrative, etc. But on the level of the individual, which was the deadliest? Nicholas Hobbes' Essential Militaria breaks down the stats for eleven historic conflicts: Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Indian Wars: 0.9 percent (1 in 106) • Mexican War: 2.2 percent (1 in 45) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) I'm not trying to fight in any war, but if you strapped me in a time machine and made me pick one, I guess I'd go with the Spanish-American War. As long as I don't have to be in Teddy Roosevelt's regiment. [ Geekosystem ] Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now You may also like Jalopnik Here&apos;s The Bugatti Chiron&apos;s Tacked-On American-Market Bumper Lumps Jason Torchinsky 4/12/17 2:28pm Deadspin Presenting The 2018 Name Of The Year Bracket Sam Gutelle 3/28/18 10:29am Gizmodo Just 53 People Used the App That Let Cambridge Analytica Swipe Data From Up to 311,127 Australians Matt Novak Today 10:25am Recent from Kyle VanHemert 2 28 30.9K You Don&apos;t Want to Live Inside This Perpetually Rainy House Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 7:00pm 1 4 4.4K Photofon Shows Just the Photos in Your Twitter Timeline Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 4:40pm 1 35 27.5K iWork for iPhone Kyle VanHemert 5/31/11 6:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.                ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of getting killed in the army?    I was thinking of joining the Army because stuff like that, plus Law enforcement such as being a cop, intrigue me.  what are the chances of getting killed? And what all can you do when you join?  thanks         Follow      11 answers  11    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Dallas Cowboys      Jeffrey Dean Morgan      Rosamund Pike      Real Madrid      Finn Balor      SUV Compact      Cindy Hyde-Smith      Nissan Rogue      Jimmy Kimmel      Car Insurance MO          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  I did the Math on this not too long ago before my 3rd deployment and I came up with .8% for one 12 month tour. However, this does not take into account that when I did this there were 100 soldiers a month dieing last month their were 5. Also if you are in a job that goes out of the wire every day your odds are much higher than the cook that makes sure chow is hot. Your odds of getting wounded are much higher though roughly 10 times that of dieing.  If you are really afraid of being injured please choose another job. I don't need another cowardly soldier that is ducking leaving the wire every time we have a mission, lord knows we already have plenty of them.      Source(s):  18 years in the Army    Quickspic  · 10 years ago       11  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment          Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                          Your odds of being killed as a male 18-24 are 200-300 hundred times higher in the USandA than as an Army or Marine member in Iraq AND Afghanistan combined. Even the NY Times agreed with this calculation.       jim  · 10 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         When you consider how many people there are in the Army and how many have been killed so far, I think you'll agree that you stand more of a chance of being killed in your every day life especially in larger cities.  I personally know many soldiers who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan that have been there two and three times and most have not even seen action while others had a lot of fun while in action but I have yet to meet one that regretted joining...Well except the ones that didn't make it through boot camp.       Source(s):  US Marines 76-77 Former law enforcement    JundaKell  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       I don't have exact stats, but I understand that some 4,000 military personnel have died in Iraq since it started over there.  That's an average of 800 per year.  I'm also given to understand that at any time, there are over 130,000 troops in Iraq.  On those numbers alone, your chance of dying in any year is about 6 out of a 1,000.  Or 994 chance out of 1,000 that you'll live.  Of course, those don't count every death, including accidents, sickness, and personnel who die from non-military action, such as driving on the highway back home, but those odds are about the same, whether you're Army or a civilian.  Considering the U.S. death toll EVERY year is 16,000 for murder, or that nearly 50,000 people die EACH year in traffic accidents, I'd say your odds of dying in the Army due to military duty is pretty marginal.       demos_jones  · 10 years ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Chances of being killed are small.  If you want to be a cop, join the Army and go with Military Police.  It will make it easier to become a cop if and when you get out of the military.       Jimmy Jazz  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment            Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         chances of getting killed hmm depends on where you're at, what mos you are, how ****** up your leadership is and how well you pay attention to your surroundings, soldiers die everyday, sometimes it seems like its a roll of the dice, now dont let that discourage you from doing what you want to do, research the mos that are in the army, and make an educated decision, dont make a half assed decision without all the knowledge you can get, and show up at a duty station with a poor attitude, thats what puts soldiers lives in danger       thedolphinflogger  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       u have a better chance of walking around detroit and dying... or even driving a car       Rafael T  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       if you are worried about dying for your country, you are much better off joining the coast guard or just remaining a civilian. as for the army, it will depends on how well you and the people next to you are trained.       Source(s):  USMC..oorah    Josh B  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     5  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Your chances of dying are better in a car than dying in battle. You will never regret service to your country.       Source(s):  Life member VFW    Plumber Rock  · 10 years ago      8  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     join the marines.   you wont regret it. my brother is a Marine, he left a kid, came back a man, came back a Marine  look at this picture, and seriously consider the USMC  http://www.stuff.hqubed.com/uploads/army%20vs%20marines.jpg       Anonymous  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     6  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Want to build a free website?   Looking for a new chandelier?   Online education an option?   Get a Master's Degreee Online              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    Chances of getting killed in army?        Chances of women getting killed in Army today?        Army officer chances of getting killed?       More questions       Are chances higher getting killed in America or in the Military ( Army)?        What is the chance of getting killed in the US army?          Answer Questions    Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?        Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?        Sparta in 2018?        How long can your hair be in the army?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  8 answers      Should i go to the army?  11 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                          ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of dying in the Army?    I never really worried about dying if I were to join (I'm currently in Army ROTC), but I had this SCARY dream last night and now I'm scared as hell.  What are my chances to die in the Army if I were to be an Intel Officer as my MOS?  Is it easier to die here in the US like in a car crash?  Thanks   Update:  Thanks for the responses guys.  Yeah I guess the chance of dying in the USA isn't that much different.. Besides, I'd rather die engaging the enemy than in a car crash in Interstate 25.         Follow      13 answers  13    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Dallas Cowboys      Jeffrey Dean Morgan      Rosamund Pike      Real Madrid      Finn Balor      SUV Compact      Cindy Hyde-Smith      Nissan Rogue      Jimmy Kimmel      Car Insurance MO          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  Percentage wise you're more likely to die in a car accident or crime.  Intel officer is a great choice for lots of reasons.  The military is in a dangerous business to be sure, but the likelihood of death in America is pretty high too.  As for the number who have died in Iraq, keep in mind many would have died in that same time period with no war.  They would have died in off duty accidents, training accidents and suicide and I'm tired of hearing people say the suicide rates are higher now in the military.  That's total BS!!  We have lower incidents of suicide even though the age group 18-27 is one of the highest in society, because he teach prevention programs, intervention and track every suicide.  The military's rate is always lower than the civilian sector and lower during war.      Source(s):      Reformed  · 1 decade ago       4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   Only a fool would tell you that you would not die or get seriously hurt.  It is always a possibility and that is one of the reasons why those who undertake this kind of lifestyle deserve our utmost gratitude.  As an intel officer, I will tell you that there are fewer chances of you being in harms way than say an infantry officer.  It all really depends on what you do and where you find yourself.  Keep in mind that in this current war, there have been far fewer deaths for the number of troops we have over there than in any other war past.  In Vietnam alone we lost about 58,000 servicemen in just under a decade of fighting.  To date we've lost about 4,000 in nearly the same amount of time.  I am not trying to say that you will not die or that nothing will ever happen to you, but if you ever were to join the army and have the least probability of dying, now would be the time.  With our medical capabilities too, we are able to evacuate people from the Point of Injury or POI to the necessary level of care in record time.  What used to take hours if not days can take a matter of minutes.  Usually no more than an hour.  This is because of the incredible response times of our Medical Evacuation systems that can retrieve a wounded soldier from anywhere on the battlefield.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         All I have to say is prepare yourself mentally for combat no matter what your MOS is. Some intel guys (Marines) that I know of actually went out to on patrol, but most likely you would be in the COC, looking over you intel Soldiers and I would assume that you won't go to out on patrol as often as other Soldiers. You have a likelihood of dying a car accident than if you were an intel Officer. If the dream still bothers you, I suggest you talk to your CO in charge so this will not have a negative impact on you later on.       Source(s):  USMCR    ____________________________  · 1 decade ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Lets just say the odds are about even!  But if you are afraid of dying by serving in the Army, then the odds would have to go up!  Someone who is scared is going to be too cautious to be of much use, if you didn't realize that before, be aware of it now!  Many of those men who are serving now were in the reserves, many had no idea they were going to be sent into a war when they joined, some have been sent back several X's!  If you are scared then don't join the Army or Marines, join the Navy or Air force, they are somewhat safer.       geegee  · 1 decade ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Don't worrie about dying man. Life is for living. You are going to die one day. So do something you love. There is more to the army then just fighting and dying. You become apart of something bigger then you have ever seen. You are an American. You are the best of the best. Look in your history books. HOOAH!       armyharvey1821  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         there is actually a higher chance of you dying in detroit.im not kidding but also not that many people died in the military over the years we've been to. more people die in america than our soldiers do in the middle east.if you were worried about dying you should move to like wyoming the least populated state or North dakota       Three Dog  · 1 decade ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     There are over 2 million members in the US Military, 4,000 have died in a time of war in over a span of 5 years, you do the math. The chances aren't all that high, probably higher in Detroit or somewhere.       Anonymous  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Listen to your NCO's and try not to do anything..stupid.  You'll be fine, you'll probably be a fobbit anyway.       Hjaduk  · 1 decade ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       only 30% higher then if you lived in detroit....i'm being serious. it really depends upon your job, truck driver not so good, techincal much better       Untamed Rose  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Probably high especially because they keep sending the soldiers back over and over and over and over again. Suicide rate has climbed and ptsd is a sure bet when you come home. Think about you decision carefully and then do what you think is best.       suzy  · 1 decade ago      0  Thumbs up     9  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Want to build a free website?   Looking for a new chandelier?   Online education an option?   Get a Master's Degreee Online              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What is the chances of dying in the army?        Whats the chances of dying in the United States Army?        What are the chances of dying if I join the BRITISH army?       More questions       Chance of dying in the army?        What are the chances of dying in the army reserve?          Answer Questions    Will WW3 soon starts in Syria ?        Mark IX can you answer me?        Going through a tough time in life. After high school I didnt think everything would be so depressing. I cant find a job, should I join army?        Is it ok for a 257 lb guy to join the us military?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  8 answers      Should i go to the army?  11 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                                     Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service  If you're worried about the dangers of enlisting, you should think about how dangerous these alternatives are -- and how much less job security you might have.            Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )    Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM       America loves its military. The vitriol heaped on returning Vietnam veterans in the 1960s and 1970s -- most of whom had no choice in the matter of their deployment -- caused such a public backlash that most Americans swung hard from anger to hero worship, and our default reaction to military service has been hero worship ever since. And why shouldn't it be? After all, no other profession explicitly asks its workforce to make the ultimate sacrifice.   Source: User DVIDSHUB via Flickr.   However, just because military servicemen or servicewomen might someday be asked to die in service to their country doesn't mean that they will . In fact, modern military service isn't even America's deadliest job! There are certainly a number of serious factors to consider before joining the military, including the commitment to sign away at least four years of your life and the stress of essentially being on call 25 hours a day (that's not a typo) for your entire enlistment, but if the threat of death is your primary concern, you may want to dig into the realities of U.S. military casualties before making up your mind.  Can you keep the peace and keep your life? Make no mistake -- people can and do die during military service. The Defense Manpower Data Center, one of the Department of Defense's analytical groups, has recorded 48,834 military personnel deaths from 1980 to 2010, which works out to 1,575 deaths per year. However, the American military is a huge organization, which has never slipped below 1.35 million active-duty servicemembers in any given year across all branches. There were 1.7 million active servicemembers on average per year from 1980 to 2010, and when you add in the full-time equivalent service hours of reserve forces, the United States has fielded nearly 1.9 million full-time equivalent servicemembers each year for the past three decades.  Because enlistment figures fluctuate from year to year, assessing military casualties based on the rate of death per 100,000 serving each year gives us a more consistent picture of the dangers faced by our servicemembers. Over these three decades of tracking, 82 servicemembers per 100,000 have died each year to all possible causes , and the leading cause of death is probably not the one you'd most suspect:  Source: Defense Casualty Analysis System.  Accidents are by far the most consistent danger to military personnel, surpassing all other causes of death in every year tracked except the five (2004 through 2007 and 2010) most identified with major actions in Iraq. In fact, before 2002, the U.S. military endured only two years (1987, when an Iraqi jet attacked the U.S.S. Stark , and 1991, during Operation Desert Storm) of combat-related casualties in excess of one servicemember per 100,000. Accident-related deaths, on the other hand, while in decline since 1980 (reaching a three-decade low of 25.2 per 100,000 servicemembers in 2010), still account for the lion's share of all military deaths, and have been responsible for an average of 40.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year since 1980.       Had the United States not mired itself in first "liberating" and then policing of Iraq, the average number of combat fatalities would be far lower, as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan didn't surpass deaths in Iraq until 2009. Even though American troops withdrew from Iraq at the end of 2011, total U.S. military deaths in that country are still roughly twice as high as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan. Despite this uptick in combat deaths, illness (which claimed 14.3 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) and suicide (which claimed 11.8 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) were still greater scourges of the military than battle, which has been responsible for an average of 9.3 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year from 1980 through 2010. However, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq did push the number of combat-related deaths up significantly, to a rate of 27.7 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010 . This higher fatality rate pushed the overall military death rate up to 93.4 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010.  But serving in the military isn't even the most dangerous job in America, even if we focus only on the period after the opening of these two combat theaters. Would you like to know what's more dangerous than military service?   Source: Kyle Rush via Flickr.   Logging: 127.8 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 You're a lumberjack, but you might not be OK, because you work in the most dangerous occupation in America, with 45 more deaths per 100,000 workers than the armed forces. In the three decades we've examined, the military never suffered more deaths per 100,000 personnel than the logging industry suffered in 2012. The military's worst year was 2007, when combat deaths hit modern highs of 52.7 per 100,000 servicemembers and total military deaths reached 121.4 per 100,000 servicemembers.  Fishing: 117.0 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 The high death rate of fishermen (or fisherfolk, if you prefer something gender-neutral) might not be so much of a surprise, as this is a profession that has a reality show -- Deadliest Catch -- that tells you it's dangerous right in the title! The military's annual death rate only surpassed that of the fishing industry in 2007, and its three-decade average death rate is nearly 35 personnel per 100,000 lower than it is for fishing.       If you're looking for job security and personal safety, you'd actually be better off joining the military than working as a lumberjack or in the fishing industry. Military service will -- unless you do something horrendously improper -- guarantee at least four years of pay, which should generally be at least $20,000 per year (pay grade E-3, which is a private first class in the Army or a seaman in the Navy, pays $21,700 per year), much of which will be take-home because of general military policy of providing room and board to servicemembers. Loggers, on the other hand, make a median salary of only $33,600 per year, nearly identical to the $33,400 median salary in the fishing industry. The logging industry is expected to see a 9% decline in its employment numbers by 2022, and the fishing industry is expected to lose 5% of its workforce during the same time frame.  Nearly any military servicemember with career ambitions is likely to earn more than the median logging or fishing salary after several years, and some may even start off earning more -- the lowest pay grade for the officer corps (a second lieutenant in the Army or an ensign in the navy) equates to an annual salary of $34,900.  Combat isn't that common If you're still concerned about the risk of death in combat, keep in mind that the military won't have its boots on the ground in hostile countries all the time -- at least not as long as voters have a say in the matter and choose to elect less hawkish politicians. Even so, there were still several other jobs more likely to kill you than combat in the military during this period of global police action:  Sources: Defense Casualty Analysis System and U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. *Note: military casualty rates are from 2001 through 2010 and pay grade used is E-4. Other occupational casualty rates and median salaries used from BLS data and are current through 2012.  The military certainly isn't the safest place to earn a living, but it's hardly the death trap many concerned parents and nervous would-be enlistees might think. In fact, analysis performed by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center found that death rates were significantly lower in the Navy (60.9 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) and in the Air Force (47.4 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) from 1990 through 2011 than for the military as a whole -- Marines, at 103.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year, are taxed harder than any other military branch, but even this heightened death rate doesn't surpass that suffered by logging or fishing workers.       No one should join the military expecting it to be a cushy cakewalk, but at the same time, it's worth keeping in mind that there are deadlier jobs with less job security than military service. There are plenty of other considerations as well. Military life can still be very dangerous, even if it's not deadly, and these casualty figures don't account for grievous but survivable wounds that can have lifelong impacts on a servicemember's life. However, barring another major conflict -- and since it took about 30 years for Americans to get over Vietnam before committing to another long-term fight in Iraq, it seems unlikely that the military will be plunged into a new quagmire any time soon -- we should probably expect military casualty rates to keep falling in the coming years.     Add Alex Planes on Google+ , or follow him on Twitter, @TMFBiggles , for more insight into markets, history, and technology.  Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )     Alex Planes specializes in the deep analysis of tech, energy, and retail companies, with a particular focus on the ways new or proposed technologies can (and will) shape the future. He is also a dedicated student of financial and business history, often drawing on major events from the past to help readers better understand what's happening today and what might happen tomorrow. Connect with Alex on LinkedIn or Twitter for more news and insight:      Follow @TMFBiggles          Article Info     Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM   Markets               Read More     5 Years From Now You'll Wish You Grabbed These Stocks    How the Dow's Top Dividend-Paying Stocks Have Fared in 2016    A Look at President Trump's Stock Portfolio    What Investors Missed in the Stock Market Last Week    The Top Tech ETF of the Week                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service @themotleyfool #stocks                                          Straight Dope Message Board > Main > General Questions >  Odds of dying greater for a civilian in the US than a soldier in Iraq?   PDA  View Full Version : Odds of dying greater for a civilian in the US than a soldier in Iraq?   Revtim 11-04-2005, 03:15 PM I overheard a coworker of mine talking, and his son just signed up for the Army.  His son told him that a civilian in the US actually has greater odds of dying than a soldier in Iraq, based on how many soldiers are over there vs. how many have been killed.  Is this actually true?  It sounds like a lie from a recruiter to me.  OldGuy 11-04-2005, 03:19 PM I overheard a coworker of mine talking, and his son just signed up for the Army.  His son told him that a civilian in the US actually has greater odds of dying than a soldier in Iraq, based on how many soldiers are over there vs. how many have been killed.  Is this actually true?  It sounds like a lie from a recruiter to me.  It might be true if you compare soldiers to all civilians in the U.S. disregadrding age and health.  But there are very few (none?) soldiers in Iraq dying of old age, cancer, etc.  Hampshire 11-04-2005, 03:27 PM It might be true if you compare soldiers to all civilians in the U.S. disregadrding age and health.  But there are very few (none?) soldiers in Iraq dying of old age, cancer, etc.  I'd agree.  The ratio of U.S. citizens to daily U.S. deaths may be worse that U.S. troops in Iraq to daily death rate of U.S. troops in Iraq. However, if you only counted U.S. deaths that were results of accidents and murders Iraq would be a worse off place.  Sal Ammoniac 11-04-2005, 03:45 PM Another way to think of it is like this -- you have roughly 140,000 soldiers in Iraq.  They are, for the most part, young and healthy.  We'll lose about 660 of them a year, at current rates, due to enemy action.  Now, if those 140,000 soldiers were home, would you lose 660 in a year?  You would not.  Check out this site (http://www.nsc.org/lrs/statinfo/odds.htm) for the odds of dying in a given year from any form of accident -- car accident, murder, fall from a horse, etc.  By my reckoning, of a population of 140,000, at most about 80 would die by accident in a year.  Throw in a few more for mortality due to illness, and you'd still be a long way from 660.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 04:04 PM My rough calculation:  Annual odds of dying in Iraq:  2000 deaths/150,000 troops (on average)/2.7 years = 0.5%  Annual odds of dying in the U.S. from the CDC (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/pressroom/05facts/lifeexpectancy.htm) 840 deaths/100,000 people/1 year = 0.84%  So you're about 1.7 times more likely to die in the U.S. BUT that's not adjusted for age. Let's try to ballpark the effect of age. The average age of the troops in Iraq that I could find was 27 years.  The annual likelihood of dying in the U.S. if you're 25-34 (from the CDC again)  102.2/100,000 people/1 year =  0.1%  This isn't a great way to adjust for age, but it's the best I can do with the information I've got - and it suggests that for your age, you're about 5 times more likely to die in Iraq than in the U.S.  Giles 11-04-2005, 04:11 PM According to Table no. 95 in Vital Statistics (http://www.census.gov/prod/2004pubs/04statab/vitstat.pdf) from Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2004-2005, the recent death rate in the U.S. is about 8.5 per 1,000.  mhendo 11-04-2005, 04:53 PM Our own Airman Doors made a similar argument in his thread (http://boards.straightdope.com/sdmb/showthread.php?t=268641&page=1&pp=50) about Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11, although his point of comparison was specifically auto accidents. He said, in post #89:Just to illustrate the point, we have lost to this day 909 people in Iraq, 129 more if we add Afghanistan. Add another 128 for Desert Storm, a few hundred for a myriad of reasons, and a few hundred more for accidents (crashes, 9/11, etc.), and let's just say that it's 4,000 people dead since 1979 (we'll start with Desert One, and yes, the number is probably lowball). 45,000 people die yearly in car accidents. So statistically, you're safer being in the military for your entire career including occupying a hostile country for well over a year than you are driving a car daily. It's a small consolation to those who have died, but it's a risk that we all take, and a small one at that.In reply, monstro pointed out, in post #99:Your argument is embarrassingly faulty.  How many people ride and drive in cars in the US?  About 300 million?  How does that compare to the number of soldiers who have fought in Iraq and Afganistan?  909 soldiers would still be alive if not for this ill-begotten war.  Your argument screams in the face of reason and common sense, not to mention belittling the sacrifice of people who have died serving their country (which I know is unintentional).  Color me confused for why you felt the need to go all the way back to 1979 to make your argument.  Recruiters are bringing in soldiers for current and future involvements.  It would not be wise for a guy to sign up for the military based on "peacetime" fatality rates from twenty-five years ago.  They'd be wise to look at what's happening now.  Now ain't looking too good.And Hentor the Barbarian added, in post #103:Oh, Airman Doors!  The denominator is your friend!  Why would you abuse it so?  From The NHTSA (http://www-nrd.nhtsa.dot.gov/pdf/nrd-30/NCSA/TSFAnn/TSF2002Final.pdf) we get the statistics for 2002:  fatalities=42,815, licensed drivers=194,295,633.  We'll take the numbers just for Iraq, since I can't find the stats through a brief check for Iraq and Afghanistan.  Troops=130,000, fatalities=909.  Here is a handy calculator for odds ratios: http://www.hutchon.freeserve.co.uk/ConfidOR.htm.  What you find is that, comparing the number of drivers in 2002 with troops in Iraq, the soldier in Iraq is 31.77 times more likely to be killed than an American driver.  If you had stats for the number of fatalities among the number of members of the armed forces from 1979-2004, and the number of fatalities among the number of car drivers during that time, you could also calculate the odds ratio for that comparison.  I suspect, however, that the greater risk will continue to be found among the service members.  It is a risky job, hence the debt of gratitude that we owe members of the armed forces.  It's a bit of a surprise that you would argue otherwise.And i entered the fray in post #107 with similar observations to monstro and Hentor:Just wanted to add to monstro's point here.  According to this site (http://www.geocities.com/pwhce/willing.html) the United States had 130,000 troops in Iraq in March 2004. It's the only statistic i could find for over US troop numbers, so it's the one i'm going to use. If anyone has better or more complete figures, i'd be happy to see them.  Now, it been 16 months since the invasion began, and in that time, according to Airman Doors, the US has lost 909 troops in Iraq. So, over 16 months the losses are 909/130,000.  Now, we want the figures for a one-year period, so we multiply this by 12/16. This gives us a figure of about 755/130,000, or about 5.8 deaths per 1,000 troops per year.  Now, Airman tells us that 45,000 people die each year on America's road. I'm happy enough to accept that figure. Total population of the United States is about 280 million. So, 45,000/280,000,000 gives us 1/6222, or about 0.16 deaths per 1000 Americans.  Even if we use only licensed drivers, we find that in the year 2000, there were about 190 million licensed drivers (http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/ohim/onh00/onh2p4.htm) in the United States. This makes driving appear slightly more dangerous, with final figures of about 0.24 deaths per 1000 drivers.  So, let's review the figures:  US soldiers in Iraq: 5.8 deaths per 1000 soldiers per year  Americans on the road: 0.16 deaths per 1000 population per year  Americans with drivers' licenses: 0.24 deaths per 1000 drivers per year  So, a soldier in Iraq is somewhere between 24 and 36 times more likely to die in Iraq than an American on our nation's roads. I see, on preview, that Hentor arrived at a figure of 31.77. Pretty close to my numbers.  Furthermore, Airman's "statistics" try to take us all the way back to 1979. But what he gorgets is that, during periods of peace, when American troops are not stationed in hostile territory, they are subject to the same risk of traffic accidents as the rest of the population. Correct me if i'm wrong, Airman, but i believe that you served much of your time in the armed forces right here in America? In which case, you probably ran the same risk of being in a car accident as any other American. As i suggested in that thread, this is not simply an either/or situation. For those serving in Iraq, you have to add the possibility that they will be killed by an act related to the occupation (enemy fire, friendly fire, insurgent suicide bomb, etc., etc.) to the regular, run-of-the-mill possibilities of death. Also, as others have suggested here, you have to compare the death rate in Iraq not to the overall US death rate, but to the death rate of those with similar demographic indicators as those serving in Iraq. Most of those in Iraq are relatively young, healthy folks who have, in most cases, been cleared by the military of any ailments and afflictions that would likely impede their abilities or cause them serious health concerns. If you look at the death rate among similarly young, healthy folks here in the US, i suggest that it's probably rather lower than the death rate among US troops in Iraq.  Most fundamentally, you have to ask: Of all the people who have served in Iraq since the start of the war, how many would likely be dead if the war had never started? Would it likely be fewer than 2,000 people?  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 06:32 PM If you look at the death rate among similarly young, healthy folks here in the US, i suggest that it's probably rather lower than the death rate among US troops in Iraq.I showed that above already I think. It's around five times lower.  mhendo 11-04-2005, 06:45 PM I showed that above already I think. It's around five times lower.Indeed you did.  And your figures, as i'm sure you realize, don't even take account of the fact that members of the armed forces are probably, on the whole, fitter and healthier than the average for their age group.  Bear_Nenno 11-04-2005, 07:26 PM The Army's Combat Readiness Center claims that right now 1 soldier dies every 9 hours. If we subtract the combat deaths, that's still a shit load of young healthy people dying back home. Most of those are caused by driving POVs, drinking, or just "blowing off steam" - which I think includes sports and extreme sports fatalities.  Not really making a point. Just thought someone could use the 1 every 9 hours for an anual statistic and maybe subtract the soldier deaths in Iraq (remember just Army) and see what we come up with for a % chance of a soldier dying in Iraq vs dying in the US. I think it would be the most accurate comparisson.  Bear_Nenno 11-04-2005, 07:31 PM Oh... and training. Don't know how I forgot to mention training. Many of those fatalities are from soldiers dying while training. So I think whatever number we'd come up with doing the math above, it wont be accurate to compare to civilians. But it will say how, if you're in the Army already, how much your chance of death is actually increased by going to Iraq.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 08:59 PM And your figures, as i'm sure you realize, don't even take account of the fact that members of the armed forces are probably, on the whole, fitter and healthier than the average for their age group.Maybe. But they're also on the whole from lower socioeconomic groups too, I think. Which I'd expect would have an impact in the other direction. Overall I'm happier with just ballparking by age and acknowledging that that only gives you a rough idea, but nevertheless clearly shows a far higher likelihood of death in Iraq, on the order of at least several times the likehood of death in the U.S.  Bear_Nenno - can you provide a cite for your data point? I'm not sure exactly what 1 death every 9 hours is referring to.  uglybeech 11-04-2005, 09:15 PM Oh, and another issue, mhendo, is that there are more men in Iraq and men ordinarily have something like twice the death rates in that age group as women (translation: men can't take care of themselves :p ). So that would also tend to cancel out any better  health effect.  R. P. McMurphy 11-05-2005, 06:50 AM If we were to follow your coworker's (il)logic then we would send all of our old and sick citizens over to Iraq because, according to the stats, they would have less chance of dying. That makes sense, doesn't it?  This is another example of using bogus, incomplete information to manipulate people's attitudes and decisions.  C K Dexter Haven 11-05-2005, 08:24 AM The Army's Combat Readiness Center claims that right now 1 soldier dies every 9 hours This has the same problem that has been pointed out several times: the number of deaths per hour among a group of 150,000 people is way different from the number of deaths per hour among a group of 300,000,000 people.  Revtim, by the same argument, it's safer to be a teenage drunk driver than to be an ordinary citizen. The same demographic non-comparability would apply.  So, we got a gummint representative misusing statistics? How astounding.  Bear_Nenno 11-06-2005, 03:47 AM Bear_Nenno - can you provide a cite for your data point? I'm not sure exactly what 1 death every 9 hours is referring to. https://crc.army.mil/readiness/  Not sure if it will work without login and password, but I think it should.  Johnny L.A. 11-06-2005, 08:38 AM Revtim:  I'm curious if you have given these statistics to your co-worker.  On one hand, I support fighting ingorance.  On the other hand it you were to offer the information unbidden, you'd probably piss him off.            vBulletin® v3.8.7, Copyright ©2000-2018, vBulletin Solutions, Inc.   Send questions for Cecil Adams to: cecil@straightdope.com Send comments about this website to: webmaster@straightdope.com  Terms of Use / Privacy Policy  Advertise on the Straight Dope!  (Your direct line to thousands of the smartest, hippest people on the planet, plus a few total dipsticks.) Publishers - interested in subscribing to the Straight Dope? Write to: sdsubscriptions@chicagoreader.com . Copyright © 2018 STM Reader, LLC.      We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more    Skip to Main Content                             Search       Account Menu       Menu      University of Michigan     University of Michigan        Sign In        Register            Navbar Search Filter    All  International Journal of Epidemiology    All  Journals    Mobile Microsite Search Term           Sign In          University of Michigan    University of Michigan       Register         Issues    Advance articles    Submit     Author Guidelines    Submission Site    Order Offprints    Open Access Options      Purchase    Alerts    About     About International Journal of Epidemiology    About the International Epidemiological Association    Editorial Board    Advertising and Corporate Services    Self-Archiving Policy    Dispatch Dates    Contact the IEA                             Issues    Advance articles    Submit     Author Guidelines    Submission Site    Order Offprints    Open Access Options      Purchase    Alerts    About     About International Journal of Epidemiology    About the International Epidemiological Association    Editorial Board    Advertising and Corporate Services    Self-Archiving Policy    Dispatch Dates    Contact the IEA        Close    search filter    All  International Journal of Epidemiology    All  Journals    search input      Advanced Search                              Article Navigation     Close mobile search navigation   Article navigation            Volume 36  Issue 4    August 2007       Article Contents     Abstract      Introduction      Methods      Results      Discussion      References          < Previous    Next >           Article Navigation          Military fatality rates (by cause) in Afghanistan and Iraq: a measure of hostilities         Sheila M Bird    1 MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge CB2 2SR.    *   * Corresponding author. MRC Biostatistics Unit, Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 2SR. E-mail: Sheila.bird@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk   Search for other works by this author on:   Oxford Academic    PubMed    Google Scholar     Sheila M Bird       Clive B Fairweather    2 Combatstress, Leatherhead KT22 OBX.   Search for other works by this author on:   Oxford Academic    PubMed    Google Scholar     Clive B Fairweather       International Journal of Epidemiology , Volume 36, Issue 4, 1 August 2007, Pages 841–846, https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dym103     Published:  10 May 2007    Article history       Accepted:  16 April 2007   Close                 Views       Article contents  Figures & tables  Video  Audio  Supplementary Data      PDF      Cite   Citation  Sheila M Bird, Clive B Fairweather;  Military fatality rates (by cause) in Afghanistan and Iraq: a measure of hostilities, International Journal of Epidemiology , Volume 36, Issue 4, 1 August 2007, Pages 841–846, https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dym103  Download citation file:   RIS (Zotero)  EndNote  BibTex  Medlars  ProCite  RefWorks  Reference Manager    © 2018 Oxford University Press  Close         Permissions         Share       Email  Twitter  Facebook            Navbar Search Filter    All    All  Journals    Mobile Microsite Search Term           Sign In          Register             Close    search filter    All    All  Journals    search input      Advanced Search                Abstract  Background Military fatalities occur in clusters, and causes differ between theatres of operation or within-theatre over time. Aim Based on around 500 coalition deaths, identify major causes in Iraq and Afghanistan. For consecutive periods (1: May 1 to September 17, 2006, 2: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007), ascertain UK and others’ numbers deployed to compare fatality rates per 1000-personnel years. Take account of clustering: deaths per fatal improvised explosive device (IED) incident, and in making short-term projections for Afghanistan. Methods Cause and date of coalition deaths in Iraq and Afghanistan are as listed in http://www.iCasualties.org , where each death is designated as hostile or non-hostile. Numbers deployed in 2006 were available for UK and Canada, and for US to Iraq. Findings Out of 537 coalition fatalities in Iraq in 2006 to September 17, 2006, 457 (85%) were hostile, but only half were in Afghanistan (October 2001 to September 17, 2006: 52%, 249/478). Air losses accounted for 5% fatalities in Iraq, but 32% in Afghanistan. IEDs claimed three out of five hostile deaths in Iraq, only a quarter in Afghanistan. Deaths per fatal IED incident averaged 1.5. In period 1, 50/117 military deaths in Afghanistan were UK or Canadian from 6750 personnel, a fatality rate of 19/1000/year, nearly four times the US rate of 5/1000/year in Iraq (based on 280 deaths). Sixty out of 117 fatalities in Afghanistan occurred as clusters of two or more deaths. In period 2, fatality rates changed: down by two-thirds in Afghanistan for UK and Canadian forces to 6/1000/year (18 deaths), up by 46% for US troops in Iraq to 7.5/1000/year (416 deaths). Interpretation Rate, and cause, of military fatalities are capable of abrupt change, as happened in Iraq (rate) and Afghanistan (rate and cause) between consecutive 140-day periods. Forecasts can be wide of the mark.   Military fatality rates , specific causes of death , clusters , short-term projections  Introduction  Keeping a track on fatalities and injuries by cause, 1 and on variations in the number of troops deployed to a theatre of war, such as Iraq 2 or Afghanistan, 3, 4 provides indications of cause-specific trends; and serves as a reference from which to monitor major changes, some of them sudden. Trends in military fatalities due to improvised explosive devices (IEDs) or suicide bombings 1, 4 are of military or media interest respectively. For analysis purposes, a force of 1000 servicemen and women on operations for 1 year constitutes 1000 personnel-years (pys); and so too does a deployment of 4000 personnel for a quarter year. Insightful analysis involves not only the numbers of military fatalities by nationality and cause, but computation of rates per 1000 pys. 2 An equivalent tally should be kept up for other nations 4 besides our own because the combined data may offer a more secure platform for drawing inferences, and making projections. 1, 4 Corresponding period-specific counts for the enemy (of fatalities, casualties and numbers deployed) and of civilian collateral damage—both direct 5–7 and indirectly 6–8 —give a rounded, quantitative understanding of fighting efficiencies, and the broader impact of war. The fatality rate of the Taliban's ‘foot soldiers from among the poor, ordinary Afghan tribesmen,’ 9 the extent of their losses, 10 and how readily those who die can be replaced by new recruits are critical questions, both epidemiologically and militarily, but are beyond the scope of this article. Our analysis of the rate, causes and clustering of military deaths in Afghanistan and, in 2006, in Iraq updates earlier articles on UK's military fatality rates per 1000 pys since March 20, 2003 in Iraq, 2 and on the need for military and public health sciences to collaborate. 5–7 Clustering was tragically evident on September 2, 2006 when a Nimrod came down in southern Afghanistan with the loss of 14 British lives. Moderately sophisticated analysis should be publicly reported for democratic assurance 11 that statistical science is being deployed in the service of our forces—as diligently as medico-surgical skills are. 12 Anticipated or empirical risks can then be rapidly redressed. 13–15 In Afghanistan, by straightforward empirical measures, the threat to our forces was major in mid 2006. 3 Coalition fatalities were approximately 500 in markedly different theatres and periods of operation (Afghanistan from October 1, 2001 to September 17, 2006, and Iraq from January 1, 2006 to September 17, 2006). Differences between these theatres of operation include that the coalition entered Iraq as an invasion force, not so Afghanistan. Terrain and seasonality are quite diverse between Afghanistan and Iraq. An urban focus to military operations in Iraq necessitates the use of central road configurations. Different cross-border and illegal supply lines to the enemy apply in Afghanistan and Iraq. And eradication of the opium poppy crop threatens livelihoods in Afghanistan, which has a long-established fighting tradition.  Methods  First, we compare causes of death between theatres of operation. Thereafter, our focus is on comparing (national) fatality rates in consecutive 140-day periods (May 1, 2006 to September 17, 2006; September 18 to February 4, 2007) in Afghanistan and Iraq; and on the clustering of fatalities by IEDs or air-related. We test a 70-day ahead projection for UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan which took clustering into account. Not all fatality rates can be estimated, however, because relevant denominators (period-specific troop numbers by nationality) are lacking. Data on fatalities by date, place and cause have been derived from the iCasualties.org website, 16 to which we make acknowledgement. On iCasualties.org, each fatality is designated as ’hostile’ or non- hostile. We use this designation, but have no means of its verification. Non-hostile deaths include illness, accidents (vehicular, in the air, other), injury and suicide. Information on date or cause of death is liable to minor change between dates of accessing iCasualties.org. We imposed an hierarchical coding for major causes of death as follows: airplane or helicopter, IED, rocket-propelled grenade (RPG), suicide bomber, small arms fire, all other causes. This avoids double-counting of those deaths for which more than one contributory cause was cited. Thus, if a helicopter was brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities were coded to helicopter; and if a soldier died by small arms fire and RPG attack, the death was coded to RPG. Short-term forecasts of military fatalities can either assume Poisson variation, which entails no clustering, or can take clustering explicitly into account by recognizing that deaths occur singly, in small clusters of mean size m1, or in rarer large clusters of mean size m2. Poisson variation comes into the second approach by way of estimating the expected number of singleton deaths, expected number of small clusters and in giving the probability of occurrence of one or more large clusters. We illustrate short-term 70-day forecasts by both methods. Uncertainty or 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) are used interchangeably and, because they pertain to 140-day periods or longer, are Poisson based. Thus, uncertainty may be under-estimated by failing to account fully for extra-Poisson variation. How fatalities were attributed may differ in the level of detail provided to iCasualties.org between access times and also between Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan) and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Terminologies differ between nations which deployed forces. For example, the two classifications, aircraft and airplane, need to be pooled. Notice also that friendly fire deaths can be designated as either ‘hostile’ or ‘non-hostile’, and so both need to be searched, and their totals added. Deducing the number of deaths per fatal IED incident was primarily based on coincidence of date and place of death, as publicly reported on the Iraq Coalition Casualty Count site ( http://www.icasualties.org/oif/Details.aspx , accessed September 23, 2006, February 9, 2007 and March 20, 2007). Exceptionally, commonality of military unit strongly suggested coincidence. Finally, for definiteness, 10 fatal IED incidents in Iraq in 2006 were excluded from our analysis of deaths per fatal IED incident, as follows: disarming IED (three fatalities) and 12 fatalities in seven incidents that involved both small arms fire and IED ( http://www.icasulaties.org/oif/Details.aspx , accessed on September 23, 2006, February 9, 2007 and March 20, 2007). US's deployment to Iraq was cited as 145 000 in September 2006, 17 and has been assumed to have been roughly this number throughout 2006 to February 4, 2007. In Afghanistan, British marines took over from the parachute regiment in late September 2006, and thereafter UK's operational deployment to Afghanistan increased by some 500 to 750 troops from 4500 hitherto. After 9 months under British leadership, command of International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan passed to an American general on February 4, 2007. 18  Results  Overview of approximately 500 coalition fatalities per theatre of operation: Afghanistan and Iraq  Table 1 shows that, from January 1 to September 17, 2006 (260 days), there were 537 coalition deaths in Iraq, of whom 505 (94%) were US troops and 20 (4%) from UK, these totals being broadly proportionate to respective deployments. From October 2001 to September 17, 2006 (nearly five years), there were 478 coalition deaths in Afghanistan, of whom 339 (71%) were US troops, 40 from UK and 32 from Canada. However, nearly one-third (153/478) of the military deaths in Afghanistan to September 17, 2006 occurred in 2006 itself, when US's deployment had sharply reduced, and its proportion of fatalities also: down from 80% (259/325) prior to 2006 to around half thereafter, including up to February 4, 2007 [51%: (80 + 18)/(153 + 40), 95% CI from 44 to 58%].   Table 1 Epoch-specific military fatalities by nationality in Iraq and Afghanistan  Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 (Rough-guide to deployments in 2006: approximately 145 000 US troops and over 7000 UK troops to Iraq; around 4500 UK troops and 2250 Canadian troops to Afghanistan: see also Methods and text). View Large Table 1 Epoch-specific military fatalities by nationality in Iraq and Afghanistan  Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 Theatre Iraq Afghanistan Epoch Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Oct 1, 2001 to Sept 17, 2006 Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (260 days) May 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (140 days) Sept 18, 2006 to Feb 4, 2007 (140 days) Total Fatalities  537 299 436 478 153 117 40 US  505 280 416 339 80 54 18 UK  20 14 12 40 35 33 6 Canada   No deployment   32 24 17 12 Other  12 5 8 67 14 13 4 (Rough-guide to deployments in 2006: approximately 145 000 US troops and over 7000 UK troops to Iraq; around 4500 UK troops and 2250 Canadian troops to Afghanistan: see also Methods and text). View Large  Overview of major hostile causes of military fatalities in Iraq in 2006, and overall in Afghanistan: both to September 17, 2006  The vast majority of coalition fatalities in Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2006 to September 17 (85%: 457/537) was ascribed as hostile. Hostilities per se accounted for only about half of the overall fatalities in Afghanistan since 2001 (52%: 249/478 with 95% CI from 48% to 57%). In Afghanistan, however, the proportion of fatalities due directly to hostilities increased markedly over time (chi-square = 17 on 2 degrees of freedom, P < 0.001) having been 41% pre-2005 (80/195: 95% CI from 34 to 48%), 56% in 2005 (73/130) but 63% in 2006 to September 17 (96/153: 95% CI from 55 to 70%). Selected causes of death claimed a different toll in Iraq in 2006 and overall in Afghanistan. In particular, IEDs accounted for 53% of all fatalities in Iraq in 2006 to September 17, and for 62% of hostile deaths (282/457: 95% CI from 57 to 66%). But IEDs accounted for only 13% of fatalities overall in Afghanistan and, more or less consistently, for around 25% of hostile deaths (63/249: 95% CI from 20 to 31%). There were, in fact, 28 IED fatalities in 2006 to September 17 (out of 153 coalition deaths in Afghanistan, that is: 18%) compared with only 15 IED deaths out of 195 (8%) fatalities pre-2005 but, as mentioned above, hostile deaths had increased sharply over time. Downed helicopters and aircraft, which accounted for only 5% of fatalities in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17), claimed 151 out of 478 coalition lives (32%) overall in Afghanistan, 39 of them in 2006 (to September 17: or 25%, that is 39/153). To September 17, 2006, RPGs accounted for only five out of 457 hostile deaths (1%) in Iraq in 2006, but for 13 out of 249 hostile deaths overall in Afghanistan (5%), most of these, significantly, having occurred in 2006 when RPGs claimed 10/96 (10%) hostile deaths. Small arms fire was responsible for 61 out of 457 hostile deaths (13%); and for 61 out of 175 non-IED hostile deaths (35%: 95% CI from 28 to 42%) in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17). Similarly, small arms fire accounted for 29 out of 249 hostile deaths overall (12%) in Afghanistan; but for only 29 (16%) out of 186 non-IED hostile deaths. However, as with RPG fatalities, all but one of the deaths in Afghanistan ascribed to small arms fire occurred in 2006, so that in 2006 (to September 17) small arms fire contributed to 28 out of 96 hostile deaths (29%: 95% CI from 20 to 38%) in Afghanistan; and to 28 out of 68 non-IED hostile deaths (41%), the latter comparable with Iraq in 2006. Finally, suicide bombers claimed the same number (14) of coalition fatalities in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17) as in Afghanistan overall. Friendly fire had cost no lives in Iraq in 2006 (to September 17), where US and UK troops operate in different regions, but 11 in Afghanistan overall.  Fatal IED incidents in Iraq throughout 2006 to February 4, 2007  Table 2 shows that there were 271 deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents in Iraq in 2006 to September 17 and 222 deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents in the subsequent 140 days, a pooled mean of 1.52 deaths per fatal IED incident.   Table 2 Frequency distribution for deaths per fatal IED incident in Iraq in 2006 through to February 4, 2007, and overall in Afghanistan   Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0)  Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0) Bold entries are pooled/total area. View Large Table 2 Frequency distribution for deaths per fatal IED incident in Iraq in 2006 through to February 4, 2007, and overall in Afghanistan   Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0)  Fatal IED incidents in IRAQ AFGHANISTAN      Number of deaths in a fatal IED incident Jan 1 to Sept 17, 2006 (271 IED deaths in 183 fatal IED incidents) Sept 18 to Feb 4, 2007 (222 IED deaths in 142 fatal IED incidents) Pooled data on 493 IED deaths in 325 fatal IED incidents 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents from Oct 1, 2001 to Feb 4, 2007 (and Iraq-based expected numbers) 1 128 96 224  28 (31.7) 2 33 23 56  11 (7.9) 3 14 13 27  2 (3.8) 4 5 9 14  5 (2.0) 5 3 1 4  0 (0.6) Total  183 142 325  46 (46.0) Bold entries are pooled/total area. View Large The IED-fatality distributions for Iraq in-2006-to-September-17 and for the subsequent 140 days are highly consistent one with the other (chi-square goodness of fit on 3 degrees of freedom = 1.47). Moreover, pooled, they also give a surprisingly good fit to the overall data (to February 4, 2007) from Afghanistan on 76 IED deaths in 46 fatal IED incidents (chi-square goodness of fit on 2 degrees of freedom = 1.7), ( Table 2 ).  Military fatality rates in Afghanistan and Iraq: compared in consecutive 140-day periods  The International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan was under British command from May 2006, when UK's operational deployment to Afghanistan was about 4500 as compared with around 2250 Canadian troops and about 7200 UK troops in Iraq. In the subsequent 140 days (September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007), UK troop numbers may have increased by 500–750 in Afghanistan, but decreased modestly to 7000 in Iraq. From May 1 to September 17, 2006, Table 1 showed 117 coalition fatalities in Afghanistan, which included 54 US, 33 UK, 17 Canadian and 13 other nations’ deaths. UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan were broadly proportionate to their respective deployments so that 50 deaths in 140 days from a combined deployment of around 6750 personnel (that is: 2589 pys) gave a high UK and Canadian fatality rate of 19/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 14 to 25). Coalition fatalities in Afghanistan reduced by two-thirds during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 when there were 40 deaths: 18 US, 6 UK, 12 Canadian and four from other nations. In this second 140-day period, UK and Canadian military fatality rate had reduced to 18 deaths from a combined deployment of 6750 to 7500 personnel (that is: 2589 or 2877 pys), and so to between 6.3 and 7/1000/year (Poisson and deployment uncertainty: 4.1 to 11.0 or 3.7 to 9.9/1000/year). Canadian troops did not deploy to Iraq. Table 1 showed that, from May 1 to September 17, 2006, 299 military fatalities in Iraq included 280 US, 14 UK and five other nations’ deaths. US's military fatality rate in these 140 days from an estimated deployment of 145 000 personnel (that is: 55 616 pys) was thus 5.0/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 4.4 to 5.6/1000/year); and similarly for UK troops (but wider Poisson uncertainty: 2.8 to 8.5/1000/year). In contrast to Afghanistan, coalition fatalities in Iraq increased dramatically by 46% during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 when there were 437 deaths: 417 US, 12 UK and eight from other nations. In this second 140-day period, US's military fatality rate increased to 7.5/1000/year (Poisson uncertainty: 6.8 to 8.2).  Clustering and cause of military fatalities in Afghanistan: compared in consecutive 140-day periods  Coalition fatalities in Afghanistan are shown summarily in Table 3 for May 1 to September 17, 2006 (140 days), and the subsequent 140 days.   Table 3 Coalition fatalities by cause in Operation Enduring Freedom in the 140 days from May 1 to September 17, 2006; and during subsequent 140 days    iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8          iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8        IED = Improvised Explosive Device, RPG = Rocket Propelled Grenade. Table 3 is based on iCasualties.org but imposes hierarchical coding of causes of death (left to right) so that if helicopter is brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities are coded to Helicopter and if a soldier died in small arms fire and RPG, the death is coded to RPG. Bold entries indicate a) main results and b) number of fatalities in clusters of 7+ fatalities. View Large Table 3 Coalition fatalities by cause in Operation Enduring Freedom in the 140 days from May 1 to September 17, 2006; and during subsequent 140 days    iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8          iCasualties.org designation of fatality as: Fatalities by selected cause in Afghanistan (coded hierarchically, see footnote and Methods) Period Total facilities Hostile Non-hostile Airplane or Helicopter IED RPG Suicide bomber Small Arms Fire Fatalities by cause: May 1 to September 17, 2006 (17 clusters: 10@2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4; 10, 14 = 60 clustered deaths) First 140 days:  117  76  41  H14+A15  14  10  7  19  Cluster mean, SD 3.5, SD 3.3        Cluster mean, SD for 15 clusters with fewer than 7 fatalities 2.4, SD 0.6        Fatalities by cause: September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 (7 clusters: 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4 = 18 clustered deaths) Second 140 days:  40  36  4  0  13  7  8  3  Cluster mean, SD 2.6, SD 0.8        IED = Improvised Explosive Device, RPG = Rocket Propelled Grenade. Table 3 is based on iCasualties.org but imposes hierarchical coding of causes of death (left to right) so that if helicopter is brought down by RPG attack, the fatalities are coded to Helicopter and if a soldier died in small arms fire and RPG, the death is coded to RPG. Bold entries indicate a) main results and b) number of fatalities in clusters of 7+ fatalities. View Large Sixty out of 117 fatalities from May 1 to September 17, 2006 occurred as 17 clusters of two or more deaths. Downed aircraft or helicopter can account for large clusters of fatalities, as in the 14 and 10 fatalities reported in Table 3 , or for few—as in four other incidents. Mean size and standard deviation for smaller clusters (fewer than seven fatalities) were similar between periods because, in the subsequent 140 days, there were no large clusters of fatalities in aircraft or helicopter. The majority of hostile deaths during May 1 to September 17, 2006 was attributable to small arms fire, IEDs and RPG attacks. Suicide bombers caused seven military fatalities. Non-hostile deaths were about two per week (41), which included 25 fatalities in the air. The lower number of military deaths during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007 was due, essentially, to no fatalities in the air, a major reduction in deaths from small arms fire (down from 19 to three), and to a marked reduction also in non-hostile deaths (down from 16 non-air-related to only four).  Short-term, 70-day projection of military fatalities in Afghanistan: September 18 to November 26, 2006  Based on Table 3 , if the next 70 days had continued with the pattern and deployments set by the past 140 days, then we may have expected: (i) 25 UK and Canadian fatalities (Poisson uncertainty: 15 to 35), two-thirds of them British. Alternatively, consider first that 60/117 fatalities in Afghanistan had occurred in 17 clusters (two large clusters with mean of 12 fatalities; and 15 other clusters which accounted for 36 deaths, and so mean of 2.4 deaths). Notice that 12 fatalities per large cluster is similar to a mean of 11.4 based on 80 fatalities in seven previous air disasters in Afghanistan since October 2001, in each of which 7+ lives were lost. Second, note that UK and Canadian forces accounted for 50/117 fatalities. Therefore, we may have expected: (ii) 12.2 singleton fatalities (that is: 50/117 × 57 × 0.5 period), 3.2 small clusters (that is: 50/117 × 15 × 0.5 period) with a mean of 2.4 deaths per cluster (or 7.7 deaths), plus a 28% chance that a single large cluster of fatalities occurs (with expected 12 deaths) and a 7% chance of their being two or more such large clusters. The 28% probability derives from Poisson distribution with large cluster expectation of 0.42 (that is: 50/117 × 2 × 0.5 period). Thus, there was a 65% chance that UK and Canadian deaths from September 18 to November 26, 2006 would be 20 in expectation, but a 35% chance that expected deaths could be 32 or worse. In reality, UK and Canadian fatalities were 11 [one UK+10 Canadian, in six incidents (1 + 1, 1, 2, 2, 4)], and so significantly low ( P = 0.05, 2-tail test) even against an expectation of 20 in the absence (as transpired) of any large cluster of deaths.  Discussion  Coalition forces entered Afghanistan on a totally different basis than Iraq. Afghanistan's terrain and warlike history shape Taliban tactics. In 2006, a professional, non-conscripted army fought them closely and doggedly, and could call in air strikes. Yet, historical comparison shows that the UK and Canadian fatality rate in Afghanistan during May 1 to September 17, 2006 was as bad as for the much larger Soviet force over 20 years ago: 19, 20 85 000 Soviets at outset of the 1980s, but 118 000 by 1985, 19 with deaths averaging 1577 a year in 1980–82, and 1848 in 1984–86. 20 And mirrored the fatality rate in guerrilla-fighting of the UK's Special Air Service in Oman, 1970–76. 21 Contemporary comparison—Iraq vs Afghanistan, 2006—showed that the fatality rate was 4-fold lower in Iraq but then rates in both theatres altered in opposite directions, so that each became as great as during major combat in Iraq in 2003. 2 Military fatality rates can, and do, change abruptly. Abruptness was exemplified in Afghanistan by the failure of our 70-day-ahead projection to anticipate as few as 11 UK and Canadian fatalities, despite having taken account of the clustering of military deaths. Suddenly changed fatality rates occur with, or without, alteration in the distribution of specific causes. 22, 23 In Iraq throughout 2006, half the military deaths were always due to IEDs despite a major up-regulation in hostilities. Two-thirds reduction in deaths in Afghanistan was cause-specific, however: no fatalities in the air, major reduction in deaths due to small arms fire and in non-hostile deaths. In 2006, air losses accounted for 1 in 20 fatalities in Iraq but claimed one in five lives lost in the very different landscape of Afghanistan. Spectacularly similar between Iraq and Afghanistan was the average number of deaths (1.52) per fatal IED incident, reflecting vehicle-associated clustering. Central roads and urban focus to fighting in Iraq vs open, tracked terrain in Afghanistan facilitate the deadly efficient use of IEDs in the former, as does cross-border access to supplies and technical know-how. Air losses and IEDs cause small size (2–6, cluster mean 2.5 deaths) or large (7+ fatalities) clusters of deaths. Occasional large clusters make for fraught short-term forecasting as there is insufficient time for observed and expected cluster counts to match up. Worse, change of tactics, strategy or tempo by the enemy or by our commanders, as when the British negotiated a Taliban withdrawal from Musa Qala, 18 gives the lie to short-term forecasting, as with UK and Canadian fatalities in Afghanistan. Canada's high toll of fallen, 4 relative to deployment, may not have changed between periods, however—major air losses had contributed to both US (10) and UK (14) but not to Canadian fatalities in the earlier period. With seasonal and command changes again unfolding alongside the lottery of poppy eradication, ‘same pattern as before’ is doubtful for the 140 days to June 24, 2007. On current deployments and seasonal 60: 40 basis from Table 3 , we expect 25 UK and Canadian fatalities (as singleton deaths or in small clusters) but with added 24% chance of single large cluster, and 5% chance of two or more large clusters of deaths. The high death toll from our forces in Afghanistan in mid 2006 was halfway to the humanitarian disaster rate, 36.5 deaths/1000/year. 24 Fit, young soldiers were dying in war in Afghanistan at a rate greater than heroin-injecting exacts back home, 10/1000/year. 25 Why eradicate Afghanistan's opium poppies, which risks impoverishing local people and losing hearts and minds? Why not purchase instead—for use as diamorphine 25 or, more controversially, prescribed heroin? Some alliance of military, economist and public health minds is needed. Conflicts of interest: C.B.F. served 13 years in the Special Air Service, including in Oman, and is Appeals Director for Combatstress in Scotland. S.M.B. chaired the Royal Statistical Society's Working Party on Performance Monitoring in the Public Services, and resigned from an Office for National Statistics committee overseeing research access to national mortality and morbidity data because of decisions which threatened the integrity of a military study. S.M.B. has made donations to Combatstress. KEY MESSAGES Fatality rates changed in opposite directions in Iraq and Afghanistan between consecutive 140-day periods. Fatality rates became comparable during September 18, 2006 to February 4, 2007, both as high as during the initial phase of major combat in Iraq. IEDs accounted for 62% of hostile deaths in Iraq, much higher than in rural Afghanistan. The distribution of fatalities per fatal IED incident was the same, however. Specific causes of military deaths may differ not only between theatres of operation but also over time within-theatre, for example: small arms fire in Afghanistan. Due to operational changes, short-term forecasts of military fatalities can be wide of the mark, but should account for the chance of a large cluster of fatalities.  References  1 Bruce  I . Soldiers giving out sweets killed by bomber (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://www.thrherald.co.uk/news/70327.html 2 Bird  SM . UK statistical indifference to its military casualties in Iraq , Lancet , 2006 , vol. 367 (pg. 713 - 71 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  3 Sample  I . Study highlights perils of Afghan service  Guardian Unlimited 2006; September 7. Available at: http://guardian.co.uk/afghanistan/story/0,,1866822,00.html 4 Staples  S , Robinson  B . Canada's fallen. Understanding Canadian military deaths in Afghanistan , Foreign Policy Series , 2006 , vol. 1 (pg. 1 - 13 ) (September 2006: Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives) 5 Bird  SM . Military and public health sciences need to ally , Lancet , 2004 , vol. 364 (pg. 1831 - 33 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  6 Roberts  L , Lafta  R , Garfield  R , Khudhairi  J , Burnham  G . Mortality before and after the 2003 invasion of Iraq: cluster sample survey , Lancet Online , 2004 October 29  (Available at: http://image.thelancet.com/extras/04art10342web.pdf ) and Lancet 2004; 364 :1857–64 7 Burnham  G , Lafta  R , Doocy  S , Roberts  L . Mortality after the 2003 invasion of Iraq: cross-sectional cluster sample survey , Lancet Online , 2006 October 13  doi:10.1016/S0140-5736(06)69491-9 8 Bilukha  OO , Brennan  M , Woodruff  BA . Death and injury from landmines and unexploded ordnance in Afghanistan , JAMA , 2003 , vol. 290 (pg. 650 - 53 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  9 Norton-Taylor  R . Browne fears deeper Afghan conflict (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://www/guardian.co.uk/military/story/0,,1876558,00.html 10 BBC News ‘Militants’ die in Afghan clash (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://news/bbc/co/uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/5362796.stm 11 Royal Statistical Society Working Party on Performance Monitoring in the Public Services (chair: Professor Sheila M. Bird) , Performance Indicators: Good, Bad, and Ugly. , 2003 October 23 (Accessed July 11, 2006) Royal Statistical Society, London  Available at: http://www.rss.org.uk/pdf/PerformanceMonitoringReport.pdf 12 Hodgetts  TJ . UK statistical indifference to military casualties in Iraq (Letter) , Lancet , 2006 , vol. 367 pg. 1393  Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  13 Evans  M . More troops are rushed out to combat threat of the Taleban , Times , 2006 July 11 (pg. 6 - 7 ) 14 Smith  M . Military fears big Afghan losses , The Sunday Times , 2006 January 1 (Accessed July 6, 2006) Available at: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,2087-1965621,00.html 15 Smith  M . Army pleads for more troops after Afghanistan firefight , The Sunday Times , 2006 April 23 (Accessed July 6, 2006) Available at: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2087-2147806,00.html 16 Operation Enduring Freedom: Coalition Fatalities (Accessed September 22, 2006 and February 9, 2007) Available at: http://www.icasualties.org/oef/Afghanistan.aspx 17 List of nations in the Coalition (Accessed September 21, 2006) Available at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multinational_force_in_Iraq 18 Sengupta  K . Britain hands over Afghanistan to US (Accessed February 12, 2007) The Independent Online Edition 2007: February 12. Available at: http://news.independent.co.uk/world/asia/article2237663.ece 19 Collins  GW . (retired US Air force lieutenant colonel and Fulbright Senior Fellow in Afghanistan) The War in Afghanistan (Accessed September 8, 2006) Available at: http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1986/ma 20 Grau  LW , Jorgensen  WA . Handling the wounded in a counter-guerrilla war: the Soviet/Soviet experience in Afghanistan and Chechnya  Available at: http://fmso.leavenworth.army.mil/documents/handlwnd/handlwnd.htm (Foreign Military Studies Office Publications, accessed September 8, 2006) 21 Geraghty  T . Oman 1958-59; 1970-76. In: , The Special Air Service, 1950 to the Gulf War. Who Dares Wins , 2000 (ISBN 0 7515 0358 4). London Warner Books pg. 204  22 Norton-Taylor  R . Take UK troops out of Iraq, senior military told ministers , The Guardian , 2006 September 29 (pg. 1 - 2 ) 23 Bruce  I . Afghan suicide bombings soar as Taliban blame outsiders , The Herald , 2006 September 28  ( http://www.theherald.co.uk/news/70970.html ) 24 Bradt  DA , Drummond  CM , Richman  M . Complex emergencies in Indonesia , Prehospital Disaster Medicine , 2001 , vol. 16 (pg. 294 - 301 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  25 King  R , Bird  SM , brooks  SP , Hutchinson  SJ , Hay  G . Prior information in behavioural capture-recapture methods: demopgraphic influences on drug injectors’ propensity to be listed in data sources and their drugs-related mortality , American Journal of Epidemiology , 2005 , vol. 162 (pg. 1 - 10 ) Google Scholar CrossRef Search ADS  PubMed  26 Brimelow  A . Afghan poppies ‘could help NHS’ BBC News Online 2007; 23 January (Accessed 12 February 2007) Available at: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6311929.stm    Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association © The Author 2007; all rights reserved.        Topic:    afghanistan    iraq    military personnel        Issue Section:  War        Download all figures                              2,515  Views     21   Citations            View Metrics      ×       Email alerts   New issue alert    Advance article alerts    Article activity alert    Receive exclusive offers and updates from Oxford Academic     Close           More on this topic   Effectiveness of a pay-for-performance intervention to improve maternal and child health services in Afghanistan: a cluster-randomized trial  Cohort Profile: The Danish Conscription Database(DCD): A cohort of 728 160 men born from 1939 through 1959  Women in novel occupational roles: mental health trends in the UK Armed Forces  Health consequences of the first Persian Gulf War on French troops     Related articles in     Web of Science    Google Scholar       Related articles in PubMed      PTSD of rape after IS ("Islamic State") captivity.        Sulfation of Catecholamines and Serotonin by SULT1A3 Allozymes.        UK military doctors; stigma, mental health and help-seeking: a comparative cohort study.        Prospective use of unmanned aerial vehicles for military medical evacuation in future conflicts.         Citing articles via    Web of Science (21)    Google Scholar    CrossRef        Latest    Most Read    Most Cited         How does the association of general and central adiposity with glycaemia and blood pressure differ by gender and area of residence in a Malawian population: a cross-sectional study      Education Corner      An open-source, integrated pedigree data management and visualization tool for genetic epidemiology      Analysis of ‘sensitive’ periods of fetal and child growth      Cohort Profile: The Haematological Malignancy Research Network (HMRN); a UK population-based patient cohort                                          About International Journal of Epidemiology    Editorial Board    Author Guidelines    Contact the IEA    Facebook     Twitter    Purchase    Recommend to your Library    Advertising and Corporate Services    Journals Career Network             Online ISSN 1464-3685  Print ISSN 0300-5771  Copyright © 2018 International Epidemiological Association              About Us    Contact Us    Careers    Help    Access & Purchase   Rights & Permissions    Open Access      Connect    Join Our Mailing List    OUPblog    Twitter    Facebook    YouTube    Tumblr      Resources   Authors  Librarians  Societies  Sponsors & Advertisers  Press & Media  Agents     Explore   Shop OUP Academic  Oxford Dictionaries  Oxford Index  Epigeum  OUP Worldwide  University of Oxford     Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide        Copyright © 2018 Oxford University Press  Cookie Policy  Privacy Policy  Legal Notice  Site Map  Accessibility  Get Adobe Reader            Close     This Feature Is Available To Subscribers Only  Sign In or Create an Account   Close    This PDF is available to Subscribers Only  View Article Abstract & Purchase Options   For full access to this pdf, sign in to an existing account, or purchase an annual subscription.   Close                             Log In  ·  Sign Up         Search Entire Site Search Forum Advanced Forum Search Expand for more options.      + Discuss & Interact Forum, Reviews & More        Forum  Forum Home  University Forums A-Z    Top Forums  College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League    Featured Discussions           + Find a College Search For Your Best Fit        College Search Tool   Find the best school—for you.  Use this tool to search by categories such as major and location. You can then use filters to fine tune your results.  Start Searching     Find matching schools based on...  How Do I Start Choosing a College?  Before you ask which colleges to apply to, please consider the following.  Mistakes College Process Rookies Make  Majors and College Search  Your College Major: What to Choose?  Campus Visit Tips When Tours Won’t Fit    Recent Campus Reviews          + Read &
            Learn College Articles & Advice        Articles & Blogs  Browse All Articles  Expert Blogs   Admit This Expert opinions on the college admissions process!    Ask the Dean Read answers to questions about the college admissions process, financial aid, and college search by College Confidential’s resident expert!       Article Categories  College Search  Preparing for College  College Admissions  Paying for College  Campus Life  Majors & Careers  Graduate School  Studying in the U.S.    Popular Tags:       The Latest          + Free
            Resources Tools for Students & Parents        Scholarship Search  Search from over 3 million scholarships worth more than $13 billion.  Find Money    College Search Tool    Start Searching    Online Calculators  Academic Index Calculator  We'll help you estimate your AI, which is used by some schools to summarize the academic
                                accomplishments of applicants.  Financial Aid Calculator  College affordability is important for just about everyone these days, and it's handy to
                                get an idea of how much aid you might be eligible for.    More Good Stuff  25 Tips from the Dean eBook  Recommended Books  College Rankings                 Welcome to College Confidential!  The leading college-bound community on the web    Sign Up For Free   Join for FREE ,
            and start talking with other members, weighing in on community discussions,
            and more.  Also, by registering and logging in you'll see fewer ads and pesky
            welcome messages (like this one!)    As a CC member, you can:   Reply to threads, and start your own.  Post reviews of your campus visits.  Find hundreds of pages of informative articles.  Search from over 3 million scholarships.           Forum Home  Latest Posts  Activity  Unanswered Best Of...     Find A College   College Search  CampusVibe     Top Forums   College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League          Featured Threads    Are Waiting Lists Out of Control?  — Dave_Berry    4 Ways to Increase Odds of Winning College Scholarships  — Dave_Berry    Low-Income, First-Generation Students Have—Finally—Established a Beachhead at Ivy League School  — Dave_Berry    Princeton, Others Aim to Accept More Low-Income Students  — Dave_Berry              Home  /   College Discussion  /  College Confidential Cafe    We are excited to announce a new role on College Confidential: The Forum Champion! Read all about it and apply now .  New Discussion I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008    edited January 2008   in College Confidential Cafe      I really want to enlist in the national guard. But at the same time I don't want to fight in Iraq and get killed.  Even if I don't fight...is there a possibility I will die? Please Help!  Post edited by ishkabob on January 2008 0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook       « 1 2 3 »      Go  Replies to: I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       #1     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       bum 10 char  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #2     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       your chance of dying in the guard is not much higher than your chance of dying at home. your chance of getting injured is pretty high if you do enter combat, but dying in combat is rare.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #3     GoldShadow    Registered User  Posts: 6,160  Senior Member      January 2008       CC is probably not the right place to ask this question.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #4     tomatoking    Registered User  Posts: 847  Member      January 2008       don't worry.there are re-spawn points.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #5     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       whats a re-spawn point?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #6     snoopyiscool    Registered User  Posts: 18,082  Senior Member      January 2008       If you go to Iraq there is always a possibility to get killed. If you don't want a chance of going to Iraq that isn't going to happen.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #7     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       And -- how do you feel about being expected to kill other people? If you're OK with killing enemy soldiors, how'd you feel about accidentally killing civilians including children?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #8     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime? and of course there is the certainty that we will all die at some point.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #9     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       well, i don't want to kill anyone....I don't want to be on the front line  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #10     runforfun529    Registered User  Posts: 2,135  Member      January 2008       You don't have to go into the infantry in order to join the national guard.   www.1-800-GO-GUARD.com | MOS LIST   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #11     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       "but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime?"  Actually, there's not a large possibility of being killed anywhere when you are a relatively young U.S. citizen. Most people in the U.S. live until their 70s.  Certainly, going into combat places one at a higher than normal risk of being killed or maimed (and the injuries that people are surviving in this war are horrendous.).  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #12     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       A quick Google yielded this USA Today article from 2004. You could check to find more current info.  "WASHINGTON — In a reversal of trends from past wars, part-time soldiers in the Army National Guard are about one-third more likely to be killed in Iraq than full-time active-duty soldiers serving there, a USA TODAY analysis of Pentagon statistics shows. According to figures furnished by the military branches, the active Army has sent about 250,000 soldiers to Iraq, and 622 have been killed. That works out to one death for every 402 soldiers who have deployed. About 37,000 Army Guard soldiers have been sent to Iraq since the war began and 140 have died there — one fatality for every 264 soldiers who have served, or about a 35% higher death rate.  There are several reasons for the greater death rates among so-called part-time soldiers, who generally drill one weekend a month and two weeks during the summer when there's no war. The Pentagon has called up thousands of part-time troops for tours of a year or more in Iraq. Some of the most dangerous missions, including driving convoys and guarding bases and other facilities, frequently are assigned to Guard and reserve troops. Iraqi insurgents have attacked convoys with roadside bombs and rocket-propelled grenades, and a Tennessee Guardsman publicly complained to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week about the lack of armor on some vehicles...."   USATODAY.com - Rate of Guard deaths higher   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #13     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       AP story from 2005: "WASHINGTON — The National Guard and Reserves are suffering a strikingly higher share of U.S. casualties in Iraq, their portion of American military deaths nearly doubling since last year.  Reservists have accounted for one-quarter of all U.S. deaths since the Iraq war began, but the proportion has grown over time. It was 10 percent for the five weeks it took to topple Baghdad in the spring of 2003, and 20 percent for 2004 as a whole.  The trend accelerated this year. For the first nine months of 2005 reservists accounted for 36 percent of U.S. deaths, and for August and September it was 56 percent, according to Pentagon figures.  The Army National Guard, Army Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve accounted for more than half of all U.S. deaths in August and in September — the first time that has happened in consecutive months. The only other month in which it even approached 50 percent was June 2004..."   The Seattle Times: Nation & World: Reservist deaths high in Iraq   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #14     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       this sucks....i want to help me country but if I do.....I know I'll probably die...thats my luck!  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #15     kjcastillo1990    Registered User  Posts: 422  Member      January 2008       According to my sis, there's a higher chance of you getting shot in Washington DC alone than getting killed in Iraq as a National Guardsman. My sister is in the National Guard, and she was deployed last month. She is now in Baghdad, and her role there is being military police (that is, patrolling areas, guarding prisons, other guarding posts, etc).  If you are not in the field, the one of the only risks you have is being injured by an I.E.D (improvised explosive device) All those articles in the previous posts were from 2-3 years ago--I'm pretty sure the death rates in Iraq have gone down by a lot now.  Joining the National Guard is a really big responsibility, but you also gain a lot of respect in doing so. The army itself will train you to become a soldier as well as a leader. It's the best way to help your country....that is, if you're up to it. ;)   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook        « 1 2 3 »      Go    This discussion has been closed.                 Helpful Links    Home  College Search  Admissions  Paying For College  College Rankings  Campus Life    Online Degrees  College Topics  Ask The Dean  Discussion  About  Contact    Press  Privacy  Rules  Terms of Service  Site Map      About College Confidential  Welcome to the leading college-bound community on the Web!  Here you'll find hundreds of pages of articles about choosing a college, getting into the college you want, how to pay for it, and much more. You'll also find the Web's busiest discussion community related to college admissions, and our CampusVibe section!         ©2001-2018 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WORLDWIDE         