The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Skillet Two Cents Vitals Offspring the upgrade App directory How I Work How to Minimize Loose Skin During Weight Loss Dick Talens 4/07/15 9:00am Filed to: weight loss Filed to: weight loss weight loss fitness health annoyances how to 69 12 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink There's nothing worse than working your way through a diet only to end up with skin that hangs like a curtain from a window. Unfortunately, it's a common byproduct of weight loss. Here's what you can to minimize the amount of loose skin during weight loss or even improve the issue after you've lost weight. Why Loose Skin Happens First, let's take a look at the anatomy of your skin and the surrounding area. Two layers of tissue reside underneath your skin: adipose (or fat) followed by muscle tissue directly beneath. Both fat and muscle push up against the adjacent layer of skin, keeping it relatively taut before you lose weight. The issue of loose skin begins long before any weight loss occurs. Instead, it starts when a large amount of weight is gained. When you gain weight, your skin's surface area increases to accommodate the new fat tissue (which is why "stretch marks" sometimes occur). While your fat cells shrink when that weight is lost, you still retain the same surface area. The new void under the larger surface area creates a layer of skin that may "hang," because there is less tissue underneath taking up space. This is what's known as loose or "sagging" skin. The amount of loose skin that remains varies by individual. In fact, not everyone's skin sags afterwards, and it depends on several factors: total weight gained and lost, age, total muscle mass, and genetics among them. Advertisement Some people have a massive amount of loose skin that only surgery can fix . Others have none at all, despite significant weight loss. You can see an example of the latter case in this person's before and after . Then there are those in the middle, where there's room to prevent loose skin during weight loss as well as improve it afterwards. I have personal experience with this. After going from 230 to 150 pounds, my skin was loose and even (apologies in advance for the visual) "pullable" away from my body. I looked like the ugly bastard child created by a Shar-Pei and a jar of silly putty. My skin is no longer loose—suggesting that in non-extreme cases, it can be improved to a degree—but it could have been prevented using the methods below. Muscle Tissue: The Key to Minimizing Loose Skin Advertisement Maintaining or increasing muscle tissue is the key to minimizing loose skin. Remember, the phenomenon occurs when the underlying layers of tissue shrink under a much large surface area. If muscle mass is lost in addition to fat, it creates an even larger void under your skin's surface. On the other hand, increasing lean tissue fills the area underneath the skin, keeping it taut. There are a few ways that you can go about retaining or even increasing your muscle tissue during a diet. Lose Weight at a Reasonable Pace There's a correlation between how quickly one loses weight and the amount of loose skin they end up with. Advertisement In order to lose weight, you must create a calorie deficit. When the deficit is reasonable and you're losing one to two pounds per week, a majority of the weight lost is fat. While a more aggressive deficit will result in faster weight loss, there's a higher risk that this weight loss will come from muscle tissue, especially when done over a prolonged period of time. How to Set a Target Body Weight for Better Chances of Diet Success Everyone knows that losing weight is difficult. The greatest challenge, however, is keeping that… Read more Read Keep a slow and steady pace and a caloric deficit of around 15% below your maintenance calories. You'll retain much more muscle tissue, thus keeping your skin "tight." Advertisement Incorporate Strength Training Into Your Regimen Similar to the reasons above, incorporating strength training will allow you to maintain more muscle mass, or even build muscle if you're relatively new to this type of regimen. In your first year of resistance training, you may actually be able to build up to 20 to 25 pounds of muscle . (This will likely be less if you're dieting, given that a caloric deficit is not the optimum conditions for building muscle.) Advertisement A hypertrophy (muscle building) regimen may yield better results over one that optimizes strength or endurance. Hypertrophy training specializes in increasing the overall size and volume of your muscles, allowing your skin to cling tighter to the underlying tissue. You can find a good sample hypertrophy routine here . Bodyweight routines are fine too , if that's more of your jam, so long as they are implemented correctly. ​Are Bodyweight Exercises Effective? Dear Lifehacker,
	
	I like the idea of 
	getting a workout without extra equipment, but some people … Read more Read Advertisement Lastly, make sure to keep protein intake high . During caloric deficit this will not only prevent the loss of lean mass (or "muscle catabolization"), but also ensure that you have the optimum amount for building muscle. You can use the "Alan Aragon" rule to find your minimum daily protein target. Create Higher Protein Versions of Common Foods For More Diet Success Sometimes, it&apos;s hard to get enough protein without feeling like you need to eat an entire… Read more Read Get Even Leaner Advertisement I've observed that loose skin is less of an issue for those who get down to lower levels of bodyfat—around 10% bodyfat for men and 20% for women. Of course, this could simply be due to survival bias . For example, perhaps folks without loose skin issues in the first place are more motivated to keep continuing their progress. But Dr. Ron Brown, author of "The Body Fat Guide" doesn't think so, and has a compelling explanation: what many perceive as "loose skin" is actually excess fat . Measuring the thickness of these hanging folds of skin provides evidence that there is still a substantial amount of body fat underneath the skin. The skin is not so much "loose" as it is flabby due to excess body fat. Even if some areas have completely thinned out, excess body fat is likely to be stored in adjacent areas that contribute to the overall flabby condition. Still, there are certainly cases where nothing short of surgery will help. But there there is evidence to suggest that loose skin issues can be improved by losing more fat. Advertisement "Just get even leaner" is easier said than done, obviously. Getting to the required level of bodyfat may take years, even decades, but fitness is a never ending journey anyway. Still, there's comfort in knowing that if you have loose skin, some level of improvement is still under your control without the need for surgery. Images by Arno Meintjes , Pascal , and Alan Cleaver . Vitals is a new blog from Lifehacker all about health and fitness. Follow us on Twitter here . Advertisement You may also like Vitals ​Are Bodyweight Exercises Effective? Dick Talens 2/06/15 11:00am Vitals How to Do Skincare When You Have a Beard Beth Skwarecki Saturday 4:00pm The Concourse Feds: Drunk T.J. Miller Argued With Woman On Train And Called In False Bomb Threat Patrick Redford 49 minutes ago Recent from Dick Talens 10 4 18.9K Stick to Your Fitness Regimen by Thinking Like an App Developer Dick Talens 11/23/15 11:00am 6 20 18.8K How to Enjoy the Holidays Without Messing Up Your Weight Loss Dick Talens 11/12/15 5:00pm 23 33 84.7K Your Stubbornness Is the Real Reason You Aren&apos;t Losing Weight Dick Talens 10/06/15 1:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.       IMPORTANT! YOU MUST READ THIS BEFORE CONTINUING: By viewing the web pages on bodyfatguide.com ,
you agree to be solely responsible for any adverse effects on your health that results from the application of the
information on this web site, and you agree to release the website owner from liability for all damages,
injuries, or other adverse events that you may incur. Never attempt a diet and exercise
program without consulting a physician.      The Official Newsletter of Bodyfatguide.com  Updated: September 4, 2016   The
Myth of Loose Skin  Read more articles  by Ron Brown, Ph.D., B.Sc.
Dietetics, author of The
Body Fat Guide       "Ron
Brown is a certified fitness trainer who doesn't have an inch of flab on
his body. He'll tell you what you can do to become fit and trim too." TALK
TO AMERICA, Washington DC           A WOMAN once asked my advice concerning her loose skin,
      which remained with her despite losing a great deal of excess bodyweight
      following her pregnancy. I advised her to continue losing body fat until her
      skin tightened up. Here is part of her angry response to my advice:  "I am disgusted with the way you responded to my question...Not only did it not make any sense, but what
      you were saying was ridiculous, absurd, and physically impossible."  "...after giving birth to a baby eight months ago, and with having to let my body try and recover from gaining 87 lbs during the
      pregnancy...you would think that my body would have had some changes made to
      it. After a tiny 108 pound body stretches to almost double its size, you
      better bet that you're going to have some major stretched skin."    "And being the 'expert' that you claim to be, you should
know this already... If someone gains a large amount of weight in a short time, or loses the large amount of weight in a even shorter
time, there will be extra skin there because it does not have the fat underneath it anymore to make the skin expand to where it was before."  "The skin cannot go back in with just dieting alone because it doesn't have
any more 'fat' underneath it to get rid of, and it doesn't have the extra layers of
fat on the body to cover anymore, so it just hangs there, left as a reminder of how fat you once were, and how much your body was forced to
stretch out to accommodate the large amount of weight that was gained. By
exercising, the skin does pull in some-with the muscle, but there will still be excess skin left on the body that
can't be 'starved off.'"         Skin Thickness
      and Elasticity Many
      people would agree that this woman's argument appears to make sense. In such cases,
      plastic surgery is usually offered as the best solution to eliminate
      hanging remnants of excess, lax, or redundant skin, especially if the
      condition is associated with skin disorders. But, a closer look reveals this logic to
      be faulty. Is loose skin really unavoidable and inevitable after
      substantial weight loss? I believe the answer is no!  The human integumentary system (skin) is not a passive
      layer of tissue that remains stretched out like an empty plastic bag after
      losing large amounts of bodyweight. The argument of the woman above about
      the cause of loose skin is a
      myth. Rather, skin is a living organ, actively
      adapting to the body's internal and external environments. People on
      extended fasts consuming nothing more than water have demonstrated that
      the skin can lose 20% or more of its size. The skin is usually thickest on the soles of the
      feet, and thinnest on the eyelids. As a typical example of your skin's
      thickness, pinch the skin on the back of your hand.  If
      it were true, as this woman claims, that the folds of skin hanging off her
      body had absolutely no fat left underneath to diet away, every inch of
      this skin would hang in sheets as thin as folds of paper.         However, common observation of the folds of skin in such examples reveals this
is not usually the case. Measuring the thickness of these hanging folds of skin provides
evidence that there is still a substantial amount of body fat underneath the
skin. The skin is not so much "loose" as it is flabby due to excess
      body fat. Even if some
      areas have completely thinned out, excess body fat is likely to be stored in adjacent areas that contribute to the overall flabby condition.  Age is claimed to be a factor that reduces
skin elasticity and thus reduces the ability of the skin to readjust it's size after weight
loss. However, many cases of loose skin are found in relatively young people who have lost
weight, so the effect of age on skin elasticity is not really a factor in all
      cases, if at all.  A change in a woman's body shape before and after normal
      pregnancy is another example of the skin's flexibility to snap back to
      normal size. By normal pregnancy, however, I mean without large
      accumulations of excess body fat, unlike the case of the woman above.        The Cause of "Loose Skin"  Why does the skin sometimes take on this hanging appearance
      (e.g., abdominal pannus) during the course of losing large amounts of weight?
      Why is it that not everyone who loses weight has this problem? Why do we
      see flabby skin develop even in people who have lost much less weight?
      What is the difference between those people who suffer from flabby or loose skin, and those who achieve weight loss while completely
      or partially avoiding this problem?  In my opinion, the droopy appearance of folds of skin is most probably
      caused by crash diets that sacrifice large amounts of supporting muscle, or lean body mass. Even less
      severe diets and weight loss from bariatric surgery can result in a substantial amount of muscle loss over time. Perhaps
      future scientific research will show a correlation between loss of lean
      body mass on a diet with the development of redundant skin.  In the meanwhile, here's an example to illustrate how muscle loss on a diet can
cause droopy folds of flabby, loose skin. Let's say you start at a bodyweight of 115 pounds, in good
toned shape with firm skin,
      but you gradually gain 100 pounds of body fat.
      You then go on some sort of crash weight-loss program or have bariatric
surgery to quickly lose those 100 pounds.  However, let's say not all of the weight you lose is body fat.
Perhaps 20% of your lost weight is muscle. This is not unusual on a severe
crash diet, and many people lose much more muscle than that on these diets. In
fact, if you were to fast on just water, 60% of your weight loss would be
muscle.       And, because muscle can rapidly dehydrate and sacrifice protein to provide an additional supply of
      energy to your body,
      muscle loss increases the more active you are on a severe diet. But
let's stick to a modest number of 20% muscle loss in this example. Now,
after your severe diet, you have returned to your starting bodyweight of 115
pounds, but your internal body composition is altered. You have 20 fewer pounds
of muscle on your body, and 20 more pounds of body fat, even though you weigh as much as you
did before you put on the extra weight! The percentage of your bodyweight that
      is fat is now higher than before you gained weight. Would you expect your body to look as
      shapely and firm under these circumstances, with a higher percentage of
      body fat? NO! At 115 pounds, body parts that used to be filled with toned
      muscle are now filled with a greater volume of flabby fat instead. Pound
      for pound, fat takes up more volume than muscle, pushing farther out until
      it begins to hang
in folds of skin. Continuing on with your diet only exacerbates the problem as
      your muscle level drops even more. Even worse, if your bodyweight dips
      below your healthy starting point, you are now too thin and covered with
      flabby skin! Now, imagine the effect if you lose
      several hundred pounds of bodyweight, and your muscle loss is twice as
      much, 40-50% or more of lost bodyweight. Those voluminous folds of flab
      can become an enormous problem.         Non-Surgical Removal of "Loose Skin" To
eliminate and prevent the droopy appearance of the remnants of excess body fat
during and following
weight loss, without resorting to surgical procedures, you must
change your body composition, not just lose bodyweight. That means paying
particular attention to the ratio of your body fat to muscle, or lean body mass.
Preventing loss of
      lean body mass while dieting to lose body fat will dramatically
improve your appearance. "I lost ten pounds in one
week!" How often has the public seen such advertisements for rapid weight
loss? Everybody wants fast results. But even if you manage to lose ten pounds in
a week, the real question is what kind of pounds did you lose? Muscle? Fat?
Imagine discovering that you lost 9.5 pounds of muscle and only half a pound of
fat in one week! That's the dirty little secret of rapid weight loss claims. Now
imagine the psychological shock if you discover that after all your hard work to
take off 100 pounds this past year, you need to gain back 75 of those pounds as
muscle. The quick-fix weight loss method is not worth the effort. Almost every dieter has
experienced rapid weight regain after dieting. Aside from regained body fat
resulting from a return to overeating habits, many people don't realize that regained
bodyweight can often include a significant amount of replenished lean body mass that was lost during dieting.
Dieters actually look and feel betterless haggard and with less droopy skinafter
regaining this kind of lean weight. So, how is muscle
lost on a diet, anyway?  During a diet a process
called gluconeogenesis (which means a
new source of glucose) utilizes muscle and body fat to supply energy not provided
by food. For each pound burned during gluconeogenesis, 60% is burned
from muscle and 40% from fat. Twenty-five percent of bodyweight lost on very-low
calorie diets (400-800 calories) is from muscle and supporting connective tissue (Saris,
"Very-low-calorie diets and sustained weight loss," Obesity
Research , 2001).  In my opinion, the best approach to avoid muscle loss
while dieting is to supply a
daily calorie intake equal to no less than your resting metabolic rate, the calories burned
by your muscle mass at rest, which is about 1,200 to 1,800 calories or higher for most people.
Professional bodybuilders have resting metabolic rates over 3,000 calories! Do
not estimate your resting metabolic rate according to your bodyweight. Scientists have developed
formulas to calculate resting metabolic rate according to fat-free or lean body
mass levels. See The Body Fat Guide  to calculate your exact resting metabolic rate according to your lean
body mass. This calorie intake, and perhaps a few hundred additional calories
depending on your activity level, is the minimum amount needed to maintain and replenish
your muscle as body fat is burned off through physical activity, much as an athlete
burns off body fat in training. You never see serious athletes like Olympic
champion Michael Phelps training while eating
only 400-800 calories! Athletes get lean by relying on exercise to burn fat while eating
enough to maintain muscle. Don't expect optimal results from sitting around and
"starving" yourself. Dietitians suggest people
increase their activity by 500 calories a day and cut their normal calorie
intake by 500 calories. Stated more precisely, burn off body fat by
eliminating only the portion of your diet
that would otherwise fuel your usual daily activity (assuming it equals 500
calories), and burn off an additional 500
calories of body fat with additional activity, equivalent to 1-2 hours of normal
walking for most people, depending on your bodyweight. This leaves you enough food to
maintain muscle while losing two pounds of body fat a week. That's a good
deal that no quick-fix diet can match! The Body Fat Guide  will show you exactly how to do it. Two pounds of body fat lost a week is only a
suggestion, not dogma. People have different activity levels and resting
metabolic rates. Once you understand and master dieting without muscle loss
you can customize and accelerate your training for even greater results,
provided you are willing to
put in the work. People often become motivated to work harder to achieve greater
results, but they are held back by lacking the knowledge to do it properly.  For
example, many people misunderstand the advice
to exercise and cut their calorie intake by 500 calories. Five-hundred calories
isn't very much, and people may figure they can get better results by cutting
1,000 or more calories from their diet. Sure enough, they begin to see their
weight drop rapidly when they cutback by more than 500 calories, which
reinforces their dieting behavior. But they don't understand that the suggestion
to cut their diet by 500 calories only applies to calories burned from normal
activity; it doesn't apply to the calories needed to maintain their resting
metabolic rate and muscle mass. Their rapid weight loss is mainly muscle. When dietitians warn that severe dieting slows down your
metabolism and reduces fat loss, what they really mean is that muscle loss on a
severe diet reduces your resting metabolic rate. In the meantime, fat loss
continues as your body becomes flabbier with loose skin. Loose skin from dieting
is not a matter of how fast or slow you lose bodyweightit's a matter of
whether you provide sufficient calories to avoid or replenish depleted muscle. Periodically replenishing
depleted lean body mass with controlled, small increases in your calorie intake
is how you avoid an overall net loss of muscle during or after dieting.   Because a muscle's volume consists of 70% fluid, muscle
usually begins to replenish very rapidly as soon as you begin to increase your
calorie intake back     toward a normal maintenance intake amount. This
      replenishment helps provide the firmness and fullness to muscle that is
      lacking in flabby skin. However, you must
take extreme care to avoid over-replenishment above maintenance calorie levels, which will start increasing your
body fat level again! In effect, your dieting isn't really complete until you have
fully replenished all your muscle losses without regaining body fat.  Lean body mass replenishment can occur
in small daily amounts each dieting day. For example, on a moderate
restricted diet of
approximately 1200-1800 calories only a portion
      of each dieting day is actually spent in a state of gluconeogenesis
when your
      calorie intake briefly dips below your calorie
expenditures, as occurs when you are
      engaged in physical activity. Muscle losses are replenished during those portions of the day when
      your calorie intake briefly rises above your calorie expenditures, for
      example, following a meal.  By the way, it makes absolutely no
      difference when you eat your meals or engage in activity while on a diet,
      because the total net difference between your calorie intake and
      expenditures, known as your energy balance, will still come out the same
      over the course of 24 hours. To monitor and modify your energy balance,
      see The Body Fat Guide . On
      the other hand, lean body mass replenishment can also occur over several days
following a period of very strict dieting, fasting, or alternate-day fasting. For example, a person who fasts for several days is in a continuous
      state of gluconeogenesis, and often follows the fast with a controlled
      re-feeding period to restore healthy lean weight. Interestingly, I believe
      part of the reason why more females than males develop anorexia is because
      females, in general, tend to omit this
      recovery of muscle from dieting, which they consider unimportant in their
      drive for thinness. Generally, males are less likely to disregard replenishment of
      their muscle mass. See Never Thin Enough .
      I also believe that most females, including anorexia patients, are
      interested in having "toned muscle." What they may not
      understand is that muscle tone is maintained through adequate caloric
      intake, regardless how much one exercises.  Monitoring body composition
      levels of lean
body mass will guide you in determining the correct balance between your calorie
intake and calorie expenditures, which will allow you to replenish and maintain
      levels of lean body mass that are burned while dieting. See The
      Body Fat Guide to monitor changes in your lean body mass and body fat
      levels. Experienced
      dieters often take a weekly "break day" from dieting, knowing
      that it recharges them. Regardless if replenishment occurs daily, every
      several days, or weekly or more, failure to
restore depleted lean body mass is the number one cause of "loose skin." It is possible to be at the ideal bodyweight according to
      Body Mass Index charts (BMI), but still have too much body fat and not enough lean body mass. For example, a young woman in her twenties with
      "loose skin" recently appeared on a popular radio talk show. 
      She had lost over two-hundred pounds in one year, and her bodyweight at 5' 8" was now in the 120's. Yet, her abdomen was covered with flabby skin that hung off of her. I would guess there is at least another 20 pounds of excess body fat stored in those folds of skin. However, if she lost  another 20
pounds of bodyweight, she would obviously look like an emaciated stick! But, that's not because she is too low in body fat...it's because she lacks
      sufficient lean body
      mass! My suggestion to
      this young woman would be to replenish her lost lean body mass with a
      healthy balanced diet, and to tone her muscle with weight training (See Muscle
      Mass Myths ). After increasing her bodyweight with 20 pounds of replenished lean body mass, she can then lose the rest of her excess body fat, without sacrificing any
      more lean body mass. Then she would have
      both a normal bodyweight AND a normal body composition. What
      is required to avoid muscle loss during a diet, and gain back lost muscle, is an easy method to measure changes in one's body composition
(muscle and body fat levels),
      and a method to monitor and modify one's energy balance, which is the
      balance between the calories one eats and burns each day. Such a method is
      available in The Body Fat Guide . Keeping
      track of changes in your body composition using  The Body Fat Guide  allows you to see how much muscle you
      are losing on a diet, and more importantly, it allows you to make calorie
      intake changes to prevent or replenish that loss. Using the scale alone, most
      dieters are unaware of their body composition changes. For example, if you start your diet
      at 220 pounds with 34% body fat and end at 135 pounds with 18% body fat,
      you might expect to look toned and trim after having lost 85 pounds of
      bodyweight and reducing your body fat percentage almost in half, but  The Body Fat Guide  will show you that you will have also lost 35 pounds of muscle in
      the process, and you will probably have plenty of
      flabby skin as a result! If you don't want this to happen to you, use The Body Fat Guide  regularly to measure changes in your body fat and muscle levels and adjust your diet until you get
      perfect results! It may seem
      counterintuitive at first to think that you need to eat more calories to
      maintain the muscle and energy you need to exercise more and burn off body
      fat. Why not just eat fewer calories to reduce your weight without all
      that work? The answer is that you need to eat sufficient calories to
      maintain your lean body mass, otherwise changes in your body composition
      will not be optimal.        Here is a letter I received from another woman since first
publishing this article:  "Hi! I've read literally hundreds of online sites regarding loose skin which seems to
inevitably accompany weight loss. Your site is the only one to list positive
news regarding this dilemma! Every other site states loose skin is unavoidable,
with post weight-loss surgery as the only solution, which of course is extremely
discouraging.  How successful is your advice; does it always work if
followed properly? I've read hundreds of personal stories at various forums and
everyone seems plagued with loose skin after weight loss. I've read your article
on loose skin and I need some further encouragement and convincing!"  It has been many years since this article on loose skin
first appeared on the web. I have received numerous positive responses from
people who have read the article and have since applied my advice. However, before presenting a
testimonial at the end of this article from a reader, here is my response to the
woman above.  Anyone who actually measures their level of body fat
(very few people know how to do that...that's where my book can help) can easily
see that, even after losing substantial amounts of bodyweight, they may still
have plenty of body fat remaining under their skin.  Perhaps you are a male who reduced from 40% body fat all
the way down to 12-18% body fat. That's an impressive amount of progress!
However, if you expect to pose for the cover of a fitness magazine, consider
that bodybuilders and male fitness models regard themselves as fat at 12-18% body fat, and usually begin
dieting down to 5% body fat or less. In a 1994 research article titled "The
lower limit of body fat in healthy active men," Friedl et al. suggested
that approximately 5.5 lbs of body fat is the minimum healthy level in
males.  There's nothing special about losing
excess body fat in "loose skin," provided you know how to properly measure
and modify your diet and activity level. But, restricting yourself to certain
foods and following unbalanced diets won't teach you how to manage that. When a person relies exclusively on an unbalanced diet to lose
weight they eventually reach a plateau due to nutritional imbalances, boredom
and cravings.  The advantage to learning how to lose weight by correctly
balancing the number of calories you eat and burn each day is that you can
adjust so many factors to keep on making
progress. You can eat
whatever you want as part of a well-balanced diet to avoid cravings and
imbalances. You can     change the speed of your loss, slower or faster as you like,
and you can exercise at a pace that suits you. If you go over your calorie
intake allowance on your diet, simply consider the extra calories as part of
your next day's allowance and get back on track without losing any time. You
have complete control and flexibility over the balance between your calorie
intake and calorie expenditures. This enables you to continue on to reach and
maintain your
weight-loss goal in a way that an unbalanced diet alone never can! More importantly, by monitoring changes in your muscle and body fat levels,
something the scale alone can't do, and by modifying your calorie intake to
avoid cutting calories too drastically, you will maintain your lean body mass
and prevent loose skin.  I have received letters from readers asking for
photos to prove my argument. People have become so brainwashed by
before-and-after photos that they neglect simple logic. I challenge anyone to
show me a photo of a woman with 10% body fat who has loose skin. No
one will be able to do so because a woman with 10% body fat has very little excess body fat, and
therefore she has no
"loose skin," regardless how overweight she may have once been. (Click for examples of female Hollywood
Celebrities with 10% body fat.)  So, the answer to your question is, yes, anyone can non-surgically reduce skin
folds of excess body fat, provided they follow the body
composition and energy balance numbers until the job is done right...and if anyone else doubts you and
tells you it can't be done because they didn't do it, ask to see their body
composition and energy balance numbers. After they scratch their head, you can explain it all to
them! Of course, you can always elect to have surgery to
fix your "loose skin" problem, but consider this: First, the more you improve your
condition before surgery by natural means, the better your chance of having a
safe outcome after surgery. But, second, and more importantly, ask yourself what
is going to prevent you from regaining the weight all over again, even after
surgery? Sooner or later, you will have to deal with the root cause of your
problem, which is your inability to control your weight because you don't know
how to properly modify the balance
between the calories you eat and burn each day. There is a way to learn that... The Body Fat
Guide . To
read a positive, unsolicited and unedited testimonial about loose skin received
from a reader in December 2004, click here .    Click
for more information                     close this window jump to content my subreddits edit subscriptions popular - all - random - users | AskReddit - worldnews - videos - funny - todayilearned - pics - gaming - movies - news - gifs - mildlyinteresting - aww - Showerthoughts - television - Jokes - science - OldSchoolCool - sports - IAmA - Documentaries - TwoXChromosomes - explainlikeimfive - personalfinance - books - tifu - Futurology - dataisbeautiful - WritingPrompts - nottheonion - food - Music - photoshopbattles - EarthPorn - philosophy - Art - nosleep - GetMotivated - askscience - LifeProTips - space - UpliftingNews - DIY - history - gadgets - creepy - listentothis - blog - announcements - InternetIsBeautiful more »  Fitness comments Want to join? Log in or sign up in seconds. | English limit my search to r/Fitness use the following search parameters to narrow your results: subreddit: subreddit find submissions in "subreddit" author: username find submissions by "username" site: example.com find submissions from "example.com" url: text search for "text" in url selftext: text search for "text" in self post contents self:yes (or self:no) include (or exclude) self posts nsfw:yes (or nsfw:no) include (or exclude) results marked as NSFW e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... this post was submitted on 21 Jan 2016 27  points (78% upvoted) shortlink: remember me reset password login Submit Fitness subscribe unsubscribe 6,337,407  readers 5,204  users here now Welcome to r/Fitness! Click Here for an introduction.  The Wiki :   - Getting Started (Read First)  - Frequently Asked Questions :   Index  General Q&A  Diet  Exercise  Pain, Injury, and Recovery  Other Q&A  Community Megathreads   - Recommended Routines  - General Advice  - Additional Resources    The Rules:  Rule Summary (click for more info):         0.  No threads that are answered by the Wiki, searching, or Google    1.  Be respectful and civil    2.  All posts must promote useful discussion and be specific to fitness    3.  Minimum Posting Requirements    4.  Progress Post Requirements    5.  No medical, injury, or pain related posts    6.  Moderators have the final word    7.  No bots or novelty accounts    8.  No advertising, surveys, or market research    9.  Routine Critiques    10.  No Thread Derailing     Recurring Threads     Day  Thread     Daily  Simple Questions    Mon  Moronic Mondays    Tue  Training Tuesdays    Wed  Rant Wednesdays    Fri  Physique Phridays    Sat  Self-Promotion Saturdays    Sat  Gym Story Saturdays    Sun  Victory Sundays    Meg  Megathreads      General Posting Guidelines (click for more info):   How to ask for help  How to post a form check  How to tell someone to read the wiki  How to help make Fittit a better place    Tips   Don't know what something means? Look it up in our Glossary .  See the Related Subreddits section for other popular fitness-related subreddits.    a community for 9 years message the moderators MODERATORS eric_twinge Extreme Croquet MetaBoob purplespengler the Roland Deschain of Fittit AutoModerator vikingmechanic Modeling MCHammerCurls Hobbyist FittitBot Rowbutt kyrpa Paddling - not the water kind Galivis Weaker than Twinge Fleme Ironborn ...and 3 more » discussions in r/Fitness < > X 169 · 56 comments  Strength and Muscle Gains in Men vs. Women 1211 · 202 comments  Growth after "deloading" 14 · 10 comments  Training Tuesday - Obstacle Course Races 37 · 549 comments  Daily Simple Questions Thread - April 10, 2018 7 · 8 comments  Phrak's GSLP Variant for 3 Months Now 71 · 40 comments  Pecs or no pecs? 6 · 29 comments  Diet Evaluation - Muscle Gain(22/m/63kg/185cm) 2806 · 406 comments  I'm going to join a gym again for the first time in 10 years. I will have 45 minutes to work out at least 4 days a week. Any advice for how to divide up my time - and will 3 hours of working a week be enough? 4 · 5 comments  need help with calisthenics 12 · 14 comments  Learning how to work out as a “recovered” anorexic/bulimic Welcome to Reddit, the front page of the internet. Become a Redditor and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. × 26 27 28 Chances of Loose Skin?  ( self.Fitness ) submitted 2 years ago  * by TempestSomg "If you're worried about loose skin, just stay fat" -Some cool guy  I'm 5'8", Male, 18, and my peak weight was about 255-260 (currently 246, just started) but loose skin is something I've come to worry about a lot. What are my chances of getting away safe? I drink almost exclusively water/green tea and do cardio (planning on starting strength training next week.)  [Edit:] Thank you everyone for the replies, but people seem to be under the impression that for some reason I'm considering quitting. This is not the case. I will in no way be deterred, regardless of whether or not I'm likely to have loose skin. I just wanted to know based on other peoples experiences. No need to preach!   37 comments share save hide report all 37 comments sorted by: best top new controversial old random q&a live (beta) Want to add to the discussion? Post a comment! Create an account [–] Rime_NA  9 points 10 points 11 points  2 years ago  (2 children) Im 17 5'11 and went from 256 to 165. Currently at 181. Loose skin is there but is nothing to worry about. People wouldn't be able to notice unless you point it out to them. + you can always build muscle to make up for the loose skin.  http://imgur.com/a/OaxVz  Just took these right now  ~Best of luck my friend and remember to lift weights along with cardio to preserve muscle.   permalink embed save give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  2 points 3 points 4 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Looks great! Thanks for the motivation!   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] PM_ME_ANYTHING_GOOD  9 points 10 points 11 points  2 years ago  (8 children) I'm 5'11 and went from 250 to 148lbs and the skin is there, but I feel better with loose skin than excess fat, this is me now http://imgur.com/a/LEqdE   permalink embed save give gold [–] Jaded_Boodha  5 points 6 points 7 points  2 years ago  (1 child) Nice tap   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] kpdubreuil  4 points 5 points 6 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Didn't notice the tap, is nice   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (5 children) That's not bad at all, you look great! If it ends up like I'd be happy.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] PM_ME_ANYTHING_GOOD  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (4 children) It's a long process and throughout it I drank extreme amounts of water. Your results will be better because I got caught up with cardio and losing fast rather than maintaining muscle, plus my macros were all scattered because my main focus was low intake over quality   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (3 children) How long did it take you to get to were you are now?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] PM_ME_ANYTHING_GOOD  1 point 2 points 3 points  2 years ago  (2 children) I started dieting last January so I could look ok for highschool graduation, by the time I graduated in May i got a gym membership and started going nightly, maybe 2-2.5 hours a day. By thanksgiving I was 135lbs and felt like shit so I stopped going for a few days and ate a lot. Recently been contemplating bulking but then I decide I could drop a bit more to get to 10% before bulking and its a sad cycle I'm in right now.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] Malicous_Latvians  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (1 child) hey man, think of it this way, its the sacrifice you make to look good, so go out and use those good looks for some good. it aint sad if it makes you happy ;)   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] PM_ME_ANYTHING_GOOD  1 point 2 points 3 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Yeah but between work, gym, and sleeping I rarely have time   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] Fackinell  3 points 4 points 5 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Pretty hard to say, I guess you'll be able to predict when you get a bit leaner.  You'll be able to fill back out with muscle somewhat though if there is lose skin and minimise the effect   permalink embed save give gold [–] helloiamyourpeepaw  3 points 4 points 5 points  2 years ago  (3 children) I'm 6' and went from 220 to 140, lots of skin. Building back up to 160 and I'm starting to fill back in.  Edit: I should say I dropped the weight very fast. If you take it slow and stop at a reasonable weight it should reduce the effects. But if the skin does come, there is no replacement for surgery.   permalink embed save give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (2 children) Any chance you wouldn't mind dropping a pic?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] helloiamyourpeepaw  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (1 child) Yes  I'ill pm them tomorrow   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Thank you!   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] Z1rith  2 points 3 points 4 points  2 years ago  (0 children) just lose it slowly and do lots of strength training, the worst outcome would be dropping tons of weight really fast by eating less while doing lots of cardio. You are probably still 80 pounds overweight so just go for 2 pounds a week max and focus on building muscle. A bonus to being overweight is that your leg strength should improve really quickly once you get more active.   permalink embed save give gold [–] xeones  1 point 2 points 3 points  2 years ago  (0 children) I dropped 100 pounds from about 265 to 165 (when I was 23 years old and 5'10) and I barely have any noticeable loose skin. I also lost at a very fast pace, at an average of about 2.5lbs per week. If I pinch my skin, there is a fair amount on my arms and inner thighs but doesn't show up normally. There is also a tiny bit at the bottom of my abs, but not too visible.   permalink embed save give gold [–] tomismaximus  1 point 2 points 3 points  2 years ago  (3 children) I've looked in to this myself, but would you rather be overweight, or be healthy and fit, but the CHANCE of loose skin? From what I've seen, you don't want to lose weight too fast, maybe 1lb a week or so, not more than that. I've also seen people talk about strength training to "fill up" the loose skin. and I've seen progress pics of people losing a decent amount of weight and they have abs after their transformation. worst case there is the surgery.   permalink embed save give gold [–] [deleted]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (2 children) Healthy > not healthy   permalink embed save parent [–] tomismaximus  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (1 child) that is a big thing, I don't understand the mentality that you may get loose skin if you be more active, workout, eat better, etc. like so what? even IF you did get some loose skin, that may be unappealing to some.. but so is having a big fat stomach/man boobs. not dying of heart disease or getting diabetes, being able to move around and be active with people, and just looking better, etc. is pretty appealing.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) I never said it would deter me from losing weight, just that I would like to know ahead of time and would like to know my chances based on others experiences. No need to preach.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] demonburster  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) if you show a pic of urself its easier to predict if u will have it or not. It depends how you store your fat and your genetics.   permalink embed save give gold [–] atikamarie Weight Lifting  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Don't lose more than a pound per week.  Stay hydrated.
The faster you lose, the more loose skin.   permalink embed save give gold [–] KindaRacistWhiteGuy  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (3 children) At 17 I was 260 at my highest weight. I got all the way down to 160/165 in 1 year with no attempt at gaining muscle. Stretched skin wasn't noticeable for me.  Do you have any stretch marks right  now? My stretch marks are unnoticeable but I can still feel them.  I am currently 21 and 205 pounds. One potential big difference is that I am 5'11.   permalink embed save give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (2 children) I do, a fair amount.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] KindaRacistWhiteGuy  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (1 child) Don't expect them to go away. Other people in the thread say it very well though. Would you rather lose the weight with some stretched skin? Or would you rather keep the weight? Stretch marks and skin just show what you came from and displays accomplishment.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] TempestSomg [ S ]  1 point 2 points 3 points  2 years ago  (0 children) I'm not worried about stretchmarks haha. I just hope I don't end up completely malformed. Obviously I prefer to lose weight, otherwise I wouldn't be here.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] fsfit  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Worry about getting thin first. You're young, it will probably not be that bad.  Stay hydrated and exfoliate.   permalink embed save give gold [–] bigrock45  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) 5"9 340-210 here http://imgur.com/a/GY1ux take your choice OP. The skin is workable   permalink embed save give gold [–] monstere316  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) It's hard to tell man cause everyone is different. Some people can lose over 100+ pounds and have none and some can lose a little and have some. Concentrate on eating right, eating enough, and getting a mix of cardio and strength training. Build the body you want. Drop down to where you are comfortable and then build the muscle you want. it's a process. People say bodybuilding is like building a house, in your case your tearing the house down to the fondation and building a better house in its place   permalink embed save give gold [–] VexElectronica  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) I'm in the process of losing weight and I personally have gotten a fair amount of stretch marks and skin. I started weight training however and that helps a lot. Also been consistently moisturising the problem areas with a Shea butter body bar every night which I have already noticed differences with   permalink embed save give gold [–] Frotabaga  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) I went from 300 lbs at my highest to 150 lbs at my lowest. 5'4".  I'm around 161 lbs now.  I have a lot of loose skin.  It's not particularly appealing.  But it's better than carrying around the extra fat.  Plus, it's gotten slightly better with time.   permalink embed save give gold [–] crybabyfannypack  0 points 1 point 2 points  2 years ago  (0 children) What does it matter? Why speculate about unknowns? If you are looking for an excuse to stop, just stop. Otherwise; stop worrying and lose that weight.   permalink embed save give gold [–] BookerTD  -1 points 0 points 1 point  2 years ago  (0 children) I'd say the chances are 100%   permalink embed save give gold [–] roninhockley  -1 points 0 points 1 point  2 years ago  (0 children) lose it too fast and you will have a host of downsides. including more loose skin.   permalink embed save give gold [–] msaleem  -2 points -1 points 0 points  2 years ago  (0 children) Chances are 100%, but people say you can out-gain them.  5'7" went from 210lb to 130lb over 2 years and maintaining for 3 now. I figure if I pack on 20lb of muscle I will not have loose skin, just scars.   permalink embed save give gold about blog about advertising careers help site rules Reddit help center wiki reddiquette mod guidelines contact us apps & tools Reddit for iPhone Reddit for Android mobile website buttons <3 reddit gold redditgifts Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy . © 2018 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. Advertise - health π  Rendered by PID 123992 on  app-470  at 2018-04-10 18:11:23.425916+00:00 running 48c1455 country code: US.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Menu           What to Do About Loose Skin After Weight Loss         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements     View More      Featured Tools    Recipe Nutrition Calculator    Weight Loss Calorie Goal    BMI Calculator    Daily Calories Burned       Caffeine Anhydrous  Exercise Timing  Boba  5x5 Workout  Healthy Breakfast Sandwich  Weight Gain Pills        Fitness     Workouts  For Beginners  Cardio  Strength  Running  Yoga   View All          Healthy Eating     Recipes  Nutrition Facts  Smart Strategies  Snacking  Dietary Supplements  Sports Nutrition   View All          Weight Loss     Nutrition  Exercise  Diet Plans  Eat Well Inspiration  Dining Out  Procedures   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Procedures  What to Do About Loose Skin After Weight Loss  Solutions to Prevent, Minimize, or Manage Excess Skin After Losing Weight    By Jennifer R. Scott | Reviewed by Richard N. Fogoros, MD    Updated March 02, 2018            Share       Pin       Email      Print                  Peter Dazeley Collection/Photographer's Choice/Getty Images       More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements        If you have a lot of weight to lose, you may be concerned about having loose skin once you reach your goal. Weight loss reality shows and plastic surgery makeover shows often show this loose skin after a significant weight loss . Learn why this happens and your options for avoiding or treating this problem. Why You Get Excess Skin After Weight Loss If you lose a considerable amount of weight, you may have loose or excess skin once you have reached a normal, healthy weight.         The degree to which you may experience this depends on a few factors. The elasticity of your skin before and during the weight loss process determines how much—​if any— loose skin you will have. Younger skin that is more elastic is able to snap back more effectively to its original shape. Older skin is less elastic and may not shrink back as well. Your chance of having excess skin is significantly affected by how much weight you have to lose and how quickly you lose it. When you lose weight quickly , your skin may not shrink as fast as you'd like. Most people who lose 100 pounds or more will have an issue with excess or hanging skin when they reach their goal weight. How long you have been overweight or obese can also affect your skin's ability to rebound from being stretched out. The less time you have spent overweight, the more likely it is that your skin will return to normal. Where Does Loose Skin Occur? The excess skin is usually abdominal skin that reaches down well past the belly area.   Loose skin after weight loss can happen in other areas as well. Some dieters experience saggy skin in the arms and around the bra line. Some even get loose skin in the thigh and buttocks area. Prevention of Loose Skin During Weight Loss A slow and steady weight loss one or two pounds a week is the ideal rate and will help save your skin's elasticity.         The quicker you lose your weight, the more likely you are to have a problem with excess skin. In addition to slow and steady weight loss, you can also build muscle to shape the tissue underneath sagging skin. How to Manage Loose Skin After Weight Loss If you notice loose skin, and especially if you are getting chafing or find the movement of loose skin annoying during activity, you may want to wear compression garments. These are widely available for both men and women for sports as well smoothing your shape under clothing. If excess skin is causing chafing that leads to skin infections, you may need to consider surgery. You might also want to have a procedure performed simply to improve the appearance of your body after weight loss. There are different types of surgery available. Some patients consider a body lift , a cosmetic surgery procedure that lifts and tightens skin at various locations on the body. Another procedure is called an abdominoplasty or "tummy tuck." This surgical method lifts and tightens just the stomach area. Some plastic surgeons can also perform a thigh lift for loose skin in the lower body. These procedures are serious operations and, like other surgeries, pose a risk of complications.         Insurance rarely covers these types of procedures. A Word From Verywell While you may be concerned about loose skin, if you are overweight or obese you will improve your health by losing weight . If you have loose skin after weight loss, talk to your doctor about skin tightening surgeries and methods that can improve both the function and the look of your body.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  Is There Any Way to Get Rid of Loose Skin After Losing Weight?           Article  How to Fix Loose Skin After Weight Loss           List  Why You Give Up on Exercise           Article  What to Expect After Bariatric Surgery           Article  3 Ways to Tighten Loose Skin Without Surgery           Article  Will I Still Have Stretch Marks After Weight Loss?           Article  The Stomach Balloon That Might Help You Lose Weight           Article  What is Weight Loss Surgery?                          Article  Should You Try a Stomach Pump to Lose Weight?           Article  Simple Lifestyle Habits That Help Banish Cellulite           Article  What Is a Calorie Deficit and How Do I Use It to Lose Weight?           Article  What Are the Risks of Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  What You Can Do About Belly Fat Rolls           List  How to Lose Thigh Fat           Article  Are You a Candidate For Weight-Loss Surgery?           Article  Is the Set Point Theory a Fact or a Myth?                               Daily Healthy Eating Tips to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Fitness  Healthy Eating  Weight Loss     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Menu           If I Lose Weight Will I Have Loose Skin?         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements     View More      Featured Tools    Recipe Nutrition Calculator    Weight Loss Calorie Goal    BMI Calculator    Daily Calories Burned       Caffeine Anhydrous  Exercise Timing  Boba  5x5 Workout  Healthy Breakfast Sandwich  Weight Gain Pills        Fitness     Workouts  For Beginners  Cardio  Strength  Running  Yoga   View All          Healthy Eating     Recipes  Nutrition Facts  Smart Strategies  Snacking  Dietary Supplements  Sports Nutrition   View All          Weight Loss     Nutrition  Exercise  Diet Plans  Eat Well Inspiration  Dining Out  Procedures   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Procedures  If I Lose Weight Will I Have Loose Skin?  Find out how much weight loss will cause loose skin    By Malia Frey  | Reviewed by Richard N. Fogoros, MD    Updated February 27, 2018            Share       Pin       Email      Print                  imagedepotpro / Getty Images       More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements        People who have worked hard to slim down weight often worry about excess skin. Many wonder, if I lose weight will I have loose skin? or exactly how much weight loss will cause loose skin? These are reasonable questions because in some cases, the loose skin causes as many problems as the excess pounds that they worked so hard to lose. If you have extra skin after maweight loss surgery, you know how frustrating it can be.         But there are some solutions that can help. There are exercises, surgical and non-surgical medical procedures that may help you tighten your skin . Loose Skin After Weight Loss is Normal To find out more about the problem of excess skin, I talked to Dr. Ninh T. Nguyen, MD, the former president of the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) . He explained that many bariatric surgery patients have loose skin after surgery. Dr. Nguyen says that sagging excess skin is one of the most common problems that weight loss surgery patients face . "It can be one of the biggest hurdles," he says. But he adds that it's not a problem that patients will face alone. Dr. Nguyen counsels his patients before surgery about what to expect during the entire weight loss process. He continues to see patients for the rest of their lives following surgery. If loose skin becomes a medical issue due to infection or if the patient is uncomfortable about the look of the skin, the surgeon will work together with the patient to figure out the best option for their particular condition.   Will I Have Loose Skin After Weight Loss? There are a few factors that may affect whether you'll have excess skin and how much loose skin you'll get after losing weight. Patients who are smokers may be at higher risk for loose skin. So quitting your cigarette habit may be help decrease your risk. In addition, slow, steady weight loss can help prevent loose skin because it gives the skin more time to regain elasticity and recover.          Quick weight loss , on the other hand, can make loose skin more common. Age is another factor. "Older patients (generally 50 years and over) are at higher risk for getting loose skin after weight loss because their skin is less elastic and less able to recover from the change in size." says Nguyen. And of course, the amount of weight you lose matters as well. But you wouldn't want to end your journey to a healthy weight simply to avoid loose skin. According to the ASMBS, even though the treatment of loose skin around the arms and certain other areas is not covered by insurance, "plastic surgery for removal of excess abdominal and breast skin is often covered by insurance for reasons of moisture, hygiene and rash issues." How to Prevent Loose Skin After Weight Loss In some cases, excess skin can be prevented or minimized. Dr. Nguyen says that exercise is one of the best ways to deal with it. "It's not perfect," he says, "but it helps to tighten both the muscle and the skin." But starting and sticking to an exercise program can be difficult if you don't like the way you look. There are certain forms of exercise that are better for you if you are overweight.  It's generally best to start slow and gradually increase your workload as your fitness level improves.         Add strength training workouts to shape and tone the muscles and flexibility exercises to keep your joints limber and comfortable.  If you're short on time, combine into a circuit style workout to make your sessions more efficient. Surgery for Loose Skin In some cases, surgery can improve loose skin. Surgeons generally recommend that you wait at least 18 months after bariatric surgery before getting evaluated for loose skin. Before that time, your body is going through too many changes. For excess skin on the abdomen, there are typically two procedures from which to choose: Abdominoplasty: Both the muscle and the skin of the abdomen are tightened during this surgical procedure. Because it is considered a cosmetic surgery, it is not usually covered by insurance.  Panniculectomy: Your doctor may recommend this procedure if you are experiencing skin breakdown or infection from loose skin or hanging skin on your abdomen. During the surgery, excess skin is removed and tightened, but the muscles are not tightened. Many insurance providers are more likely to cover this procedure. Some patients also end up with loose skin in the lower body and choose a thigh lift procedure which helps to tighten skin on the thighs and create a leaner look in the legs. There will be patients who choose not to go under the knife to get rid of loose skin. Compression garments for exercise or normal daily wear can help you to look and feel more confident in your new body. A Word from Verywell If you have loose skin after weight loss surgery, your best resource is your bariatric surgeon. He or she will be able to answer questions about your specific condition and make the best recommendation for you. If you've got excess skin from weight lost through traditional methods and exercise hasn't helped, consider speaking to your health care provider. Your excess skin may be both manageable and treatable.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  How to Prevent and Get Rid of Excess Skin After Losing Weight           Article  Will Wellbutrin Help Me Lose Weight?           Article  Is There Any Way to Get Rid of Loose Skin After Losing Weight?           Article  3 Ways to Tighten Loose Skin Without Surgery           Article  What to Expect After Bariatric Surgery           Article  Questions to Ask Before Choosing Bariatric Surgery           List  How You Can Lose Weight in Middle Age           Article  Can You Lose Weight By Only Cutting Calories?                          Article  You Can Still Schedule a Short Workout and Have the Benefits           Article  What Are the Risks of Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  What is Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  Help! I'm Over 40 and I Can't Lose Weight!           Article  The Best Diet for a Bride-to-Be           Article  5 Common Weight Loss Questions           Article  Can You Lose Weight Fast for Your Wedding? Here's What You Can Safely Do           Article  How to Provide Care After Bariatric Surgery                               Daily Healthy Eating Tips to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Fitness  Healthy Eating  Weight Loss     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                           Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   20 years old - loose skin              Results 1 to 17 of 17     Thread: 20 years old - loose skin        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     07-08-2012, 02:16 AM    #1        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                       20 years old - loose skin    Guys, from the end of march I have gone from 204 pounds to 164 pounds (as of this morning)  I'm still not as thin as i want to be yet - ive been losing by being on a VERY low calorie diet.  What are the chances of me having loose skin after this weight loss. When I look in the mirror i still have more to lose, but im not sure if the skin on my stomach IS loose skin but rather just fat that i still need to lose.  Thanks   Also, if it IS loose skin, what are the chances of it tightening up again? As the title says, im 20 years old.                    07-08-2012, 03:17 AM    #2        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                         bump                    07-08-2012, 03:26 AM    #3        ossme     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Crawling to Success       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates  Age: 33  Posts: 14  Rep Power: 0                 First of all, 40Lbs of weight loss sounds great ! Congratulations !  Could  you please provide more information about your self? you height ? body measurements ? pictures ? How much time did it take you to lose those 40 pounds ? did you do weight lifting in the process ?                    07-08-2012, 03:31 AM    #4        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                               Originally Posted by ossme    First of all, 40Lbs of weight loss sounds great ! Congratulations !  Could  you please provide more information about your self? you height ? body measurements ? pictures ? How much time did it take you to lose those 40 pounds ? did you do weight lifting in the process ?    Thanks for the quick response man.  I'm about 5 foot 10. I was 14stone 8 (around 208 pounds) on the second of april and as of this morning, july 8th, i am 164 pounds. I took some pictures earlier but can't find my USB cable but will upload as quickly as possible!                        07-08-2012, 03:48 AM    #5        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                       Pics    Heres a pic from this morning. Once again, 20 years old, about 5 foot 10, Just over 11 stone 9 (just above 163 pounds)     Attached Images     Eightjuly.png‎ (319.4 KB, 1868 views)                       07-08-2012, 04:35 AM    #6        dmacdonal9     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Feb 2012  Location: Halifax, NS, Canada  Age: 44  Posts: 11,534  Rep Power: 21733                           Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.                    07-08-2012, 05:23 AM    #7        kevi204     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2011  Posts: 1,040  Rep Power: 164                                 Originally Posted by dmacdonal9    Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.    ^^this                    07-08-2012, 09:54 PM    #8        ossme     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Crawling to Success       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates  Age: 33  Posts: 14  Rep Power: 0                 Yeah, I don't see it an issue at all. Even if there is any loose skin it will just come back to normal by time.  Just make Sure that you train as it will help in shaping things up.                    07-08-2012, 10:23 PM    #9        GuiltyOfWinning     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2012  Location: France  Posts: 1,300  Rep Power: 273                           building some lean muscle will help tighten everything up as well                        07-09-2012, 03:10 AM    #10        truushot     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Banned       Join Date: Jun 2012  Location: Illinois, United States  Age: 48  Posts: 1,584  Rep Power: 0                           The gym is calling!!! You've got a good shot of looking very good in short order if you lift.                    07-09-2012, 03:32 AM    #11        DevastatorMike     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2012  Location: New Jersey, United States  Posts: 119  Rep Power: 104                           Bump....                    07-09-2012, 03:50 AM    #12        ayoliang     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Banned       Join Date: Jun 2012  Age: 20  Posts: 593  Rep Power: 0                           Congrats man! I reccomend you buy waist trimmers, there only 5 dollars. Will help with fatloss and loose skin. Golds gym waist trimmers from walmart.                    07-09-2012, 05:41 AM    #13        YouMadDawg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      I don't skip leg day.       Join Date: Jan 2011  Location: Fort Drum, New York, United States  Posts: 375  Rep Power: 160                                 Originally Posted by ayoliang    Congrats man! I reccomend you buy waist trimmers, there only 5 dollars. Will help with fatloss and loose skin. Golds gym waist trimmers from walmart.    Which does nothing but pull water from the gut area. Not fat.     brb, transformin'  November 2016: 203 pounds, 12.1% bodyfat (BodPod, October 2016).                   07-09-2012, 06:57 AM    #14        d3lf     View Profile     View Forum Posts      ))<>(( Forever.       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: United States  Posts: 4,573  Rep Power: 10970                           you need to lift                        07-09-2012, 07:01 AM    #15        cebby1985     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Dec 2011  Age: 32  Posts: 224  Rep Power: 162                           Lift heavy. Eat more protein and for gods sake buy some bigger shorts. No loose skin just more fat to lose                    07-09-2012, 02:48 PM    #16        roybatty6     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2011  Location: Australia  Age: 44  Posts: 1,939  Rep Power: 223                                 Originally Posted by dmacdonal9    Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.    What this guy said.  Your 20, dude. You got plenty of time.  Lift heavy and get enough daily protein, and aim to lose no more than 1kg per week.  I got no loose skin after losing 80kgs in a relatively short period of time.     -80 kgs in 15 months. -100 kgs goal (75kgs bodyweight)  Abs on a skinny guy is like a fatgirl with big tits, it doesn't count.                   07-09-2012, 03:17 PM    #17        SeventhDay     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2012  Posts: 17  Rep Power: 0                           Hey don't worry about it man. I'm 5'8.5 - 5'9 and I went from 215 to 164 quickly and never had any loose skin. Just keep lifting and cardio.                            Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Tips on basic skin care etc for men  By riddlingminion in forum Misc.    Replies: 13  Last Post: 11-22-2009, 11:19 AM       More on being immortal in 20 years...  By BigMacMeal in forum Misc.    Replies: 103  Last Post: 09-24-2009, 03:39 PM       20 year old female and dont know where to start.....  By Alex101 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 53  Last Post: 05-06-2005, 07:52 PM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                                    Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   Question about loosing weight and loose skin              Results 1 to 14 of 14     Thread: Question about loosing weight and loose skin        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     10-25-2010, 03:25 AM    #1        BiHStL     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Aug 2010  Age: 30  Posts: 18  Rep Power: 0                         Question about loosing weight and loose skin    I am 22 years old and have recently changed my life for the better, and am now working out and eating better.  I started at 278 lbs, and in the last 4 or so months have lost 20 pounds, as well as put on a good deal of muscle.  My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?                    10-25-2010, 04:56 AM    #2        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by BiHStL    I am 22 years old and have recently changed my life for the better, and am now working out and eating better.  I started at 278 lbs, and in the last 4 or so months have lost 20 pounds, as well as put on a good deal of muscle.  My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?    congrats on your weight loss brother!  since you are young your skin should snap back into place quickly, especially when you start filling out with muscle later, take some fish oil supplements and don't worry about loose skin, just get the fat out first, worry about skin later.  I started at 350 in January and I am down to 225 atm, I have loose skin sure, but nowhere near as much as I thought I would have      Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-25-2010, 07:17 AM    #3        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by BiHStL    My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?    OP, I started out at 291.50 in November 09.  I weighed myself last week and I was 223.00  and no loose skin.  The trick is to take is slow 1-2 lbs per week and drink ton's of water.  Also I think this is very important. Every 6 weeeks or so I stop the diet and just eat at maintenace for 2 weeks. Allows your body to recover because I found a constant diet is very bad on you and I think by eating at maintence it allows your skin a breather room so to speak from constant shrinkage.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 07:22 AM    #4        mobikwa     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Polski Bro       Join Date: May 2009  Age: 31  Posts: 6,729  Rep Power: 6006                           I went from 300 to 175. Had only the tiniest bit of extra skin around my stomach. I could just tuck it into my waistband and no one would see it. You're lucky to have made this change at a young age, your skin should be fine.  There are some creams and lotions that you could try, don't know any off hand but they do exist.     Look under your chair. YOU GET A REP, AND YOU GET A REP, REPS FOR EVERYONE! If I get a rep, you get a rep, every time. Give me a link to make my life a little easier.  If you don't give me a link and you didn't post in the thread you rep'd me in, I'm not gonna go searching for you. I'll get everyone on recharge.                       10-25-2010, 07:25 AM    #5        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by Mrredundant    and don't worry about loose skin, just get the fat out first, worry about skin later.  I started at 350 in January and I am down to 225 atm, I have loose skin sure, but nowhere near as much as I thought I would have    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 07:36 AM    #6        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    you are making a bad assumption that all tall people carry their weight the same. my belly was hugenormous! I DO have loose skin, plenty of it, and Im sure I will have more loose skin before I am through....  but my point was not to focus on it, that he shouldn't WORRY about having loose skin right now, that instead he should try to focus on losing the fat.  too much fat < a little loose skin.  I wasn't trying to be a broscientist, just give him support and some perspective. when losing weight you look for any excuse to slow you down, this battle is more mental than anything (at least from my experience)  don't focus on the what ifs, just get her done I guarantee the results will be good!  that being said you can take anyone's comment with a pinch of salt,  no one knows how your body will react to losing weight, how you carry your weight or how much loose skin you will have when you hit your goals. there's only one way to find out, so rock it hard and cross that bridge when you get there.  in the meantime try and lose weight at a respectable/slow pace and get your vitamins      Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-25-2010, 07:37 AM    #7        drewsedg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: Henderson, Nevada, United States  Age: 35  Posts: 1,589  Rep Power: 434                           Just keep losing. After almost 60lbs it looks like I might end up with some loose skin around my arm pit area on the arms. There is still plenty of fat in there so it might snap back when the fat goes but so the way it is hanging makes me think there will be some sag after. If so I am just going to need to work my arms, lats, and chest to fill it in.     04/2010 - 295  Fattest 11/11/11 - 171.8                   10-25-2010, 07:41 AM    #8        subbob     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2009  Age: 33  Posts: 1,484  Rep Power: 3689                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    Actually this dude knows what he's talking about man....take a look at the progress pics he has going? I mean the basics of a calorie deficit and heavy lifting really helps out with the loose skin. The people that have the most problems with loose skin are the people that are sticking to strictly CARDIO and barely doing any LIFTING nevermind heavy lifting....oh and your crap on tall people having less skin troubles is def called BRO-SCIENCE. Also TBH, the OP is still fairly overweight at this time so why should he be worrying about loose skin? He should be worrying everyday about what goes into his body and what he is exerting out from his workouts...                    10-25-2010, 10:23 AM    #9        cyco85     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Monster to Beast       Join Date: Jun 2010  Location: United States  Age: 32  Posts: 3,710  Rep Power: 517                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    How is that bad advice?  He's not saying the guy's not gonna have loose skin, he's saying don't worry about it.  Worrying about it is just gonna **** the guy up mentally.  What's better?  Being obese or being in shape with some loose skin?  Moreover, I defy you to show me ANYONE in single digit BF% with loose skin (provided they didn't lose an extremely ridiculous 200+ pounds of weight in less than 2-3 years).  I'm 5'9, I stored my weight fairly evenly (maxing out at 262) but the last 20 pounds or so seemed to really go to my gut.  I never had flabby arms or anything like that, I'd say my build is meso-endo.  At any rate, I'm down 80+ pounds with about 15 to go and I don't have any loose skin yet.  My lower abdomen may have a little bit but everything seems to tighten as it goes down.  The bottom line is to focus on one thing at a time.  Lose all of that fat.  Then ease into a bulk starting with a maintenance recomp.  You're gonna look a **** ton better than when you started loose skin or not.     Barely decent crew                       10-25-2010, 11:18 AM    #10        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by subbob    oh and your crap on tall people having less skin troubles is def called BRO-SCIENCE. Also TBH, the OP is still fairly overweight at this time so why should he be worrying about loose skin? He should be worrying everyday about what goes into his body and what he is exerting out from his workouts...    I went back to see what I typed and it was not was I was trying to say. What I meant was someone at 6-4, 300 lbs has less chance of having loose skin than someone at 5-8, 300 lbs.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 11:23 AM    #11        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by cyco85    How is that bad advice?  He's not saying the guy's not gonna have loose skin, he's saying don't worry about it.  Worrying about it is just gonna **** the guy up mentally.  What's better?  Being obese or being in shape with some loose skin?  Moreover, I defy you to show me ANYONE in single digit BF% with loose skin (provided they didn't lose an extremely ridiculous 200+ pounds of weight in less than 2-3 years).    Mrredundants weight loss worked for him but losing 125 lbs in less than 9 months is very fast and some  people would get loose skin from losing this amount of weight so fast. ..especially someone that was 5-7 -5-9, not 6-4. (see my above post). Again it depends on body type, where the fat accumlated, but I'm speaking of generalizations here.   You guys are also younger. A 40+ year old who lost the amount of weight some of you lost in the periods you lost would most likely have loose skin because their stomachs were stretched out for decades.       Last edited by sweepone; 10-25-2010 at 11:34 AM .   208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 11:42 AM    #12        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    Mrredundants weight loss worked for him but losing 125 lbs in less than 9 months is very fast and some  people would get loose skin from losing this amount of weight so fast. ..especially someone that was 5-7 -5-9, not 6-4. (see my above post). Again it depends on body type, where the fat accumlated, but I'm speaking of generalizations here.   You guys are also younger. A 40+ year old who lost the amount of weight some of you lost in the periods you lost would most likely have loose skin because their stomachs were stretched out for decades.    I agree with your points here  however we are still talking specifically about the OP, who did not give his height, but he is 22 years old and should have no problem with skin elasticity over the course of his weight loss, he also stated he is building muscle while losing fat... that further diminishes the loose skin he will have to worry about.  he also stated he lost 20lbs in 4 months, which comes out to 5lbs of fat lost per month, at that rate he should never have to worry about loose skin.     Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-26-2010, 02:40 PM    #13        BiHStL     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Aug 2010  Age: 30  Posts: 18  Rep Power: 0                              Thank you for the advice everyone.  btw, I am right at 6 ft tall. Weight currently is constant at around 256.  I am in the gym 7 days a week, and lift pretty hard! I also do cardio, some days more then others.  I am on a pretty good diet in general I feel, and that is helping the most with the weight loss, since I used to go to the gym, but ate terribly, which was before I truly discovered what it is to try and take care of your body. I am also taking enough protein due to the lifting and even as meal replacements. I do take a multivitamin and fish oil every day also. My weight loss is about 2 lbs per week currently... so I think it is at a good pace.  Anyways, thanks for the responses so far. I know that no one will be able to tell me if I will or will not have loose skin. And trust me, I am not too worried about it, ill just fill it in with muscle . The only reason I ask is because I was wondering if there is anything I can do while losing weight to try and minimize the loose skin.                    10-26-2010, 05:17 PM    #14        drewsedg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: Henderson, Nevada, United States  Age: 35  Posts: 1,589  Rep Power: 434                           Sounds good man. I am doing pretty much the same thing except I rely on dumb bells at home and a lot of walking(starting to run) for my exercise.  Your diet is the key. Exercising doesn't create weight loss. It can only supplement it when you get your diet right. Keep up the good work and the results will keep coming.     04/2010 - 295  Fattest 11/11/11 - 171.8                           Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Question about losing fat and loose skin  By silvialover in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 4  Last Post: 09-04-2010, 10:31 AM       Question about losing weight and flabby skin?  By andrewkm1 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 2  Last Post: 10-23-2008, 12:45 PM       Question regarding loosing weight and protein  By Rowan in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 4  Last Post: 08-04-2006, 04:34 AM       Question about losing weight and putting on a little muscle.  By BarretJC in forum Female Bodybuilding    Replies: 1  Last Post: 09-24-2004, 06:26 AM       hey i got a question about gaining weight and speed  By loweryrb27 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 4  Last Post: 08-07-2003, 09:11 AM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                                    Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   Stretch marks = loose skin?              Results 1 to 12 of 12     Thread: Stretch marks = loose skin?        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     03-24-2010, 03:17 PM    #1        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                          Stretch marks = loose skin?    i read that stretch marks means you will definitely have loose skin if you lose weight, for example i have some stretch marks on my stomach just under my abs, and it came from no where like just started getting stretch marks no idea how, was wondering is there any way to lose weight and have my abs showing without having the loose skin.                    03-24-2010, 03:23 PM    #2        AlphaMix     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Feb 2010  Posts: 480  Rep Power: 785                                 Originally Posted by Transformer01    i read that stretch marks means you will definitely have loose skin if you lose weight, for example i have some stretch marks on my stomach just under my abs, and it came from no where like just started getting stretch marks no idea how, was wondering is there any way to lose weight and have my abs showing without having the loose skin.    Yes you can lose weight without loose skin or stretch marks, i think that loose skin are probably caused by crash diets that sacrifice large amounts of supporting muscle, or lean body mass. As long as you're lifting weights and building muscle you should be good. This is one of the biggest thing that ppl dont understand, cardio is good but if you do too much cardio and you dont eat well you will get the loose skin and stuff.     ----------------------------------♦ ɴɣϲ ϲrew ♦------------------------------------------ =============================160====================================  ----------------------------------♦I REP BACK♦-----------------------------------------                   03-24-2010, 03:58 PM    #3        Lucky4143     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Dec 2009  Location: Monterey, California, United States  Age: 25  Posts: 354  Rep Power: 149                           Yes! Loosing to much weight in a short period of time will=loose skin...or at least i higher probability of getting it.  Stretch marks aren't necessarily the same thing as loose skin..they are just the marks you get from being fat/pregnant for a prolonged period of time..they also dont go away, although there are ways of getting them down to where they are barely noticable.  Like the person above me said, take the time, lift the weights, do the cardio, eat enough, and you will not get loose skin!     18 y/o-183 lbs-6'4 March 29th- April 5th- April 12th- April 19th- April 26th-  Get Wide-Get Legs.                   03-25-2010, 10:21 AM    #4        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                           Cheers people, im glad to hear that i was thinking since i have some stretch marks its a 100% chance that im gonna have loose skin under the ab area if i loose weight, i dont mind my stretch marks because i live in uk and im pale as fu** so should be better with a tan and also ive been putting vitamin e on them.                        03-25-2010, 10:25 AM    #5        A.S.T.09     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2008  Location: South Carolina, United States  Age: 28  Posts: 381  Rep Power: 126                           Hell I have stretch marks on my stomach, under my upper arms, and my shoulders.                    03-25-2010, 11:11 AM    #6        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                           are there any people that had stretch marks , but then lost fat and look ripped now on this forum?                    03-25-2010, 11:41 AM    #7        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                           Stretch marks do not equal loose skin. You get stretch marks from growing quickly, even if its fairly small amount of growth. To get real loose skin (not just sub q fat) you will need to be hugely overweight to begin with AND have crappy genetics.  EDIT: You 187lbs, loose skin WILL NOT happen!     Signatures are for phaggots!                   03-25-2010, 11:50 AM    #8        LadyFacade     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2009  Location: New York, United States  Age: 34  Posts: 7  Rep Power: 0                 I'm not "ripped" but at someone who's lost a lot of weight, I can tell you that stretch marks can fade to the point where they're barely noticeable, but the likelihood of them "going away" isn't really high.  What you CAN do to aid the process of them fading is be very diligent about moisturizing your skin and drinking lots of water. The two combined help restore the elasticity to the skin (since stretch marks form because dry skin has to pull and tug without the proper elasticity.) This is all as I understand it... I won't be offended if someone can come in and explain it better.  I had stretch marks on my tummy, but those faded away and as I developed muscle in my arms, I actually developed stretch marks there, too. LOL So it works both ways. Keep your skin moisturized, and you should be good.                     03-25-2010, 11:52 AM    #9        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                           Stretch marks and bodybuilding go hand in hand. If your making good gains u will get stretch marks, consider this a positive. Get a nice tan and they are hardly noticeable.     Signatures are for phaggots!                       03-25-2010, 12:07 PM    #10        Dekomkd     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Age: 28  Posts: 60  Rep Power: 105                           I m just curious , how do u remove stretch marks ? :S  I got quite some , n summer is almost here :@  Do stomach exercises to tighten em up or Laser remove em :P ? (Ps: How much does it cost xox)  Thx !                    03-25-2010, 12:11 PM    #11        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                                 Originally Posted by Dekomkd    I m just curious , how do u remove stretch marks ? :S  I got quite some , n summer is almost here :@  Do stomach exercises to tighten em up or Laser remove em :P ? (Ps: How much does it cost xox)  Thx !    You cannot remove them. Get a good tan and they will be barely noticeable, esp if they are old ones.     Signatures are for phaggots!                   03-25-2010, 12:15 PM    #12        Dekomkd     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Age: 28  Posts: 60  Rep Power: 105                                 Originally Posted by biggestdog2007    You cannot remove them. Get a good tan and they will be barely noticeable, esp if they are old ones.      Not even with Surgery ? :S                            Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Stretch marks and loose skin  By goldcaddy in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 8  Last Post: 09-23-2014, 01:30 PM       Stretchy skin... absurd amount of stretch marks... loose skin.. need help!  By jbres335 in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 12  Last Post: 11-22-2008, 07:56 AM       Do stretch marks = loose skin  By NY5000 in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 1  Last Post: 08-08-2007, 05:37 PM       Stretch marks = loose skin?  By alblocker in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 8  Last Post: 04-08-2006, 06:29 AM       Loose Skin/Stretch Marks  By dieseldave in forum Professional Bodybuilding    Replies: 1  Last Post: 10-22-2004, 03:20 PM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                              Hello,         UPGRADE TO GOLD FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFITS      Profile    Track    Exercise    Progress    Community    Inbox    Settings    Log Out      Sign Up    Log In    Log In       Keep me logged in    Forgot your password?          0    Notifications    Notifications  User Preferences      You're all caught up!                                       Recipes    Fitness    Health    MyPlate    More    News    Stronger Women    Food    Diseases & Conditions    Lifestyle    Fashion & Beauty    Parenting    Relationships & Family    Weight Management    BMI Calculator                                               LIVESTRONG.COM      Weight Management      Weight Loss      Weight Loss Strategies            How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss   by JILL CORLEONE, RDN, LD  July 18, 2017       Jill Corleone, RDN, LD   Jill Corleone is a registered dietitian and health coach who has been writing and lecturing on diet and health for more than 15 years. Her work has been featured on the Huffington Post, Diabetes Self-Management and in the book "Noninvasive Mechanical Ventilation," edited by John R. Bach, M.D. Corleone holds a Bachelor of Science in nutrition.            Too much sugar may damage skin, upping your risk of sagging.  Photo Credit: EBlokhina/iStock/Getty Images          You've made the decision that you're ready to lose excess weight and have started making changes to your diet and exercise routine. But as you're losing, you may notice your skin isn't bouncing back. As an elastic organ, your skin stretches and contracts to form with the shape of your body. While there are steps you can take to minimize the sagginess of your skin while you drop those pounds -- including slow weight loss, eating the right foods and exercise -- a lot depends on your age and how much weight you have to lose.   Video of the Day             Go Slow  It's better to lose weight slowly than quickly, especially true if you're trying to prevent saggy skin. When you lose weight too quickly, you may end up losing more muscle than fat. Muscle acts as supportive tissue that helps hold the skin on your body. To help you lose more fat than muscle, keep weight loss at a rate of 1 to 2 pounds a week. One pound of fat contains about 3,500 calories, and in most cases reducing your current calorie needs by 500 to 1,000 calories a day can help you lose at this rate. For example, a 45-year-old 6-foot-tall man who weighs 250 pounds needs 3,000 calories to maintain his weight, and loses at a healthy rate by reducing intake to 2,000 to 2,500 calories a day.            Diet Right to Stop Sagging Skin  Skin elasticity plays a major role in determining how saggy your skin gets while you lose weight. Although age plays a major factor in determining how well your skin bounces back after being stretched, a healthy diet keeps the elastin and collagen -- proteins fibers that help support the structure of your skin -- strong. In general, good skin requires you follow a diet that's filled with nutrient-rich foods and that are low in fat and sugar. More specifically, you need to make sure you get enough vitamin C in your diet from foods such as red and green peppers, spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, strawberries, oranges and kiwifruit. Vitamin C is essential for the production of collagen, and it improves the appearance of your skin. Also, foods rich in linoleic acid, a type of fat found in chicken, nuts, seeds and vegetable oils, helps support better skin strength and structure. Most important, limit your intake of sugar. Too much sugar may damage skin, upping your risk of sagging. Reduce your intake of soda, baked goods and other sweet treats.  Getting Enough Water  Adequate hydration also plumps your skin to minimize sagging. The amount of water you need depends on your current health needs, exercise routine, diet and climate you live in. An adult should start with 1 quart for every 50 pounds, or 5 quarts for a 250-pound person, and adjust as needed. Your doctor can help you determine how much water you should drink each day. In addition to helping hydrate your skin, drinking water is good for weight loss. Water before meals keeps you feeling full, so you eat less. It also prevents fluid retention, so you'll get a more accurate reading when you weigh in.  Tighten Skin Up With Exercise  Regular exercise, including cardio and strength-training, may limit muscle loss while you lose weight, which may improve the look and tone of your skin. Fast walking, jogging, swimming, biking and aerobics count as cardiovascular exercise. When trying to lose weight, aim for 60 minutes, five days a week. Strength-training, which includes lifting weights, using resistance bands and yoga, builds muscle. Work out all your major muscles -- arms, back, legs, butt, shoulders -- twice a week. For best results and better skin, work your muscles to the point of failure. For example, use weights that are heavy enough that your last rep with each set is almost impossible to finish.  Considerations  If you've lost a significant amount of weight -- such as 100 pounds or more -- saggy skin may be unavoidable. If you've maintained your weight loss for more than a year and are healthy, you may want to talk to your doctor about surgery to remove the excess skin. However, as a form of cosmetic surgery, this may not be covered by insurance, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Check with your insurance company to find out. What's important is keeping the skin folds dry and clean to prevent rashes and infections. Consult with your doctor if you suspect an infection, to get the appropriate treatment.                       Lose Weight. Feel Great!  Change your life with MyPlate by LIVE STRONG .COM            GOAL     Gain 2 pounds per week  Gain 1.5 pounds per week  Gain 1 pound per week  Gain 0.5 pound per week  Maintain my current weight  Lose 0.5 pound per week  Lose 1 pound per week  Lose 1.5 pounds per week  Lose 2 pounds per week          GENDER     Female  Male          AGE          lbs.   WEIGHT         ft.  in.   HEIGHT        GET MY CALORIE GOAL         YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE           What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin on the Lower Abdomen?         How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin         How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally         How to Prevent Sagging Skin After Pregnancy         How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin         Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss         How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weight Loss         What Is the Best Thing for Firming Sagging Skin?         How to Lose Weight Before Having a Tummy Tuck Surgery         Exercises to Tighten Your Body After Weight Loss         How to Lose a Stomach That Hangs After Weight Loss When Over 60         How to Prevent Hanging Skin on the Stomach After Weight Loss         How to Prevent Wrinkles After Dieting         Home Exercises to Tighten Loose Skin         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms         Will My Skin Shrink When I Lose Weight?         Does Yoga or Running Tighten Loose Tummy Skin?         Is It Possible to Stop Facial Sagging?         How to Get Rid of Jaw Fat         How to Lose 25 Pounds in Three Months                   Advertisement      PEOPLE ARE READING     1   What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin o…     2   How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin     3   How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally     4   How to Prevent Sagging Skin After Pregnancy     5   How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin        Advertisement                 Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.         Woman     Man       Sign Up   You're signed up!      MORE  Contact & FAQ   About   Advertise   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy  PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION    Copyright © 2018 Leaf Group Ltd.
Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy .
The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be
used as a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation.
The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse
any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site.
Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the
advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.             Hello,         UPGRADE TO GOLD FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFITS      Profile    Track    Exercise    Progress    Community    Inbox    Settings    Log Out      Sign Up    Log In    Log In       Keep me logged in    Forgot your password?          0    Notifications    Notifications  User Preferences      You're all caught up!                                       Recipes    Fitness    Health    MyPlate    More    News    Stronger Women    Food    Diseases & Conditions    Lifestyle    Fashion & Beauty    Parenting    Relationships & Family    Weight Management    BMI Calculator                                               LIVESTRONG.COM      Weight Management      Weight Loss      Weight Loss Information            How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin   by ANDREA CESPEDES  July 18, 2017       Andrea Cespedes   Andrea Cespedes is a professionally trained chef who has focused studies in nutrition. With more than 20 years of experience in the fitness industry, she coaches cycling and running and teaches Pilates and yoga. She is an American Council on Exercise-certified personal trainer, RYT-200 and has degrees from Princeton and Columbia University.              Use sunscreen if you spend time outdoors.  Photo Credit: JK1991/iStock/Getty Images          Sagging skin can be a serious physical and cosmetic problem after significant weight loss. Seventy percent of people who undergo weight loss surgery, for example, suffer from excess sagging skin, reports a study in "Obesity Surgery" in 2013. Sagging skin can make you feel self-conscious, cause uncomfortable chafing and even be a barrier to physical activity. Whether or not sagging skin happens depends on how much weight you have to lose, your age at the time of weight loss and how quickly you've lost it. You can minimize the amount of sagging skin you develop with certain weight-loss strategies, but some loose skin is inevitable with extreme weight loss.   Video of the Day             Speed of Weight Loss Affects Skin Elasticity  Skin sagging almost inevitably occurs when you lose a large amount of weight quickly, such as with bariatric surgery or a medically prescribed, very-low-calorie diet. The compounds that help promote skin elasticity -- elastin and collagen -- become stressed in the process of extreme weight loss. The faster this stress happens, the less able elastin and collagen are to bounce back and provide skin firmness. To minimize the stress on the skin, aim for a slow, gradual rate of loss. When you lose weight at a rate of 1 to 2 pounds per week, you give elastin and collagen time to adapt. You may still have a fair amount of sag when you reach your goal weight if you lose 50 or more pounds, but it will be less severe than if you lose the weight at a faster rate. Yo-yo dieting also encourages skin sag. When you repeatedly stress the skin with quick weight loss and gain it back, your skin's elasticity wears out and eventually, can't bounce back. Don't crash diet or try a plan with unsustainable tactics, like juice fasting or banning entire food groups. Instead, adopt a weight-loss plan that teaches you how to moderate portions. Choose healthy, whole foods so you lose weight once and for the long-term.            Take Care of Your Skin  As you age, collagen and elastin naturally lose their strength. The younger you are when you lose weight, the easier it is for skin to bounce back. Genetics also play a role in how elastic your skin is. You can't change your age or genetics, but remember that losing weight greatly reduces your risk of chronic disease and early death -- regardless of what your skin looks like afterward. How you treat your skin can affect how well it tolerates weight loss without sagging. Sun damage and smoking can make your skin less elastic. Use sunscreen if you spend time outdoors, especially at the beach or pool, and make it a priority to quit a tobacco habit.  Exercise as You Lose Weight  Exercise is a critical strategy in losing weight. It burns calories and enhances your overall well being. Strength-training as you lose weight can help tighten muscles so they look firmer as you lose excess fat. This reduces the appearance of sagginess -- but tauter, tighter muscles can't make loose skin go away. Strength training will be most effective in reducing the appearance of loose skin in people who've lost a moderate amount of weight, such as 20 to 30 pounds. Go for at least two sessions per week that address all your major muscle groups: arms, legs, glutes, abs, shoulders, back and chest. Do at least one set of an exercise, for each muscle group, that consists of eight to 12 repetitions with a weight heavy enough to fatigue you by the end. When 12 repetitions is easy to complete, add more weight and possibly additional sets.  Some Sagging Skin Is Inevitable  If you start with a body-mass index greater than 30, especially 35 to 40, excess skin is inevitable after losing weight. When you're significantly overweight, obese or morbidly obese, skin stretches out to accommodate your larger body size; when you lose weight, the skin remains. The "North American Journal of Medical Sciences" published research in 2013 noting that this loose skin often negatively affects people's satisfaction after weight-loss surgery. The researchers suggested that body-contouring surgery be made a regular part of obesity management because of the impact the loose skin has on people's feelings and self-image after weight loss. If you've lost a large percentage of your body mass and loose skin is affecting your quality of life, discuss medical treatment options with your doctor.                       Lose Weight. Feel Great!  Change your life with MyPlate by LIVE STRONG .COM            GOAL     Gain 2 pounds per week  Gain 1.5 pounds per week  Gain 1 pound per week  Gain 0.5 pound per week  Maintain my current weight  Lose 0.5 pound per week  Lose 1 pound per week  Lose 1.5 pounds per week  Lose 2 pounds per week          GENDER     Female  Male          AGE          lbs.   WEIGHT         ft.  in.   HEIGHT        GET MY CALORIE GOAL         YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE           How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weight Loss         Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms         How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss         What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin on the Lower Abdomen?         Can You Get Rid of Sagging Belly Skin?         Will My Skin Shrink When I Lose Weight?         Can Facial Exercises Really Lift Sagging Jowls?         How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally         What Is the Best Thing for Firming Sagging Skin?         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin Without Surgery         How to Lose Sagging Underarm Skin         Does Yoga or Running Tighten Loose Tummy Skin?         How to Lose Weight Before Having a Tummy Tuck Surgery         Can You Firm Sagging Skin Without Surgery?         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin After a Gastric Bypass         The Best Natural Ways to Tighten Skin on Face & Neck         Exercises for Firming a Sagging Face         How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin         Exercises to Tighten Your Body After Weight Loss                   Advertisement      PEOPLE ARE READING     1   How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weig…     2   Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss     3   How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms     4   How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss     5   What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin o…        Advertisement                 Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.         Woman     Man       Sign Up   You're signed up!      MORE  Contact & FAQ   About   Advertise   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy  PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION    Copyright © 2018 Leaf Group Ltd.
Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy .
The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be
used as a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation.
The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse
any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site.
Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the
advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Skillet Two Cents Vitals Offspring the upgrade App directory How I Work How to Minimize Loose Skin During Weight Loss Dick Talens 4/07/15 9:00am Filed to: weight loss Filed to: weight loss weight loss fitness health annoyances how to 69 12 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink There's nothing worse than working your way through a diet only to end up with skin that hangs like a curtain from a window. Unfortunately, it's a common byproduct of weight loss. Here's what you can to minimize the amount of loose skin during weight loss or even improve the issue after you've lost weight. Why Loose Skin Happens First, let's take a look at the anatomy of your skin and the surrounding area. Two layers of tissue reside underneath your skin: adipose (or fat) followed by muscle tissue directly beneath. Both fat and muscle push up against the adjacent layer of skin, keeping it relatively taut before you lose weight. The issue of loose skin begins long before any weight loss occurs. Instead, it starts when a large amount of weight is gained. When you gain weight, your skin's surface area increases to accommodate the new fat tissue (which is why "stretch marks" sometimes occur). While your fat cells shrink when that weight is lost, you still retain the same surface area. The new void under the larger surface area creates a layer of skin that may "hang," because there is less tissue underneath taking up space. This is what's known as loose or "sagging" skin. The amount of loose skin that remains varies by individual. In fact, not everyone's skin sags afterwards, and it depends on several factors: total weight gained and lost, age, total muscle mass, and genetics among them. Advertisement Some people have a massive amount of loose skin that only surgery can fix . Others have none at all, despite significant weight loss. You can see an example of the latter case in this person's before and after . Then there are those in the middle, where there's room to prevent loose skin during weight loss as well as improve it afterwards. I have personal experience with this. After going from 230 to 150 pounds, my skin was loose and even (apologies in advance for the visual) "pullable" away from my body. I looked like the ugly bastard child created by a Shar-Pei and a jar of silly putty. My skin is no longer loose—suggesting that in non-extreme cases, it can be improved to a degree—but it could have been prevented using the methods below. Muscle Tissue: The Key to Minimizing Loose Skin Advertisement Maintaining or increasing muscle tissue is the key to minimizing loose skin. Remember, the phenomenon occurs when the underlying layers of tissue shrink under a much large surface area. If muscle mass is lost in addition to fat, it creates an even larger void under your skin's surface. On the other hand, increasing lean tissue fills the area underneath the skin, keeping it taut. There are a few ways that you can go about retaining or even increasing your muscle tissue during a diet. Lose Weight at a Reasonable Pace There's a correlation between how quickly one loses weight and the amount of loose skin they end up with. Advertisement In order to lose weight, you must create a calorie deficit. When the deficit is reasonable and you're losing one to two pounds per week, a majority of the weight lost is fat. While a more aggressive deficit will result in faster weight loss, there's a higher risk that this weight loss will come from muscle tissue, especially when done over a prolonged period of time. How to Set a Target Body Weight for Better Chances of Diet Success Everyone knows that losing weight is difficult. The greatest challenge, however, is keeping that… Read more Read Keep a slow and steady pace and a caloric deficit of around 15% below your maintenance calories. You'll retain much more muscle tissue, thus keeping your skin "tight." Advertisement Incorporate Strength Training Into Your Regimen Similar to the reasons above, incorporating strength training will allow you to maintain more muscle mass, or even build muscle if you're relatively new to this type of regimen. In your first year of resistance training, you may actually be able to build up to 20 to 25 pounds of muscle . (This will likely be less if you're dieting, given that a caloric deficit is not the optimum conditions for building muscle.) Advertisement A hypertrophy (muscle building) regimen may yield better results over one that optimizes strength or endurance. Hypertrophy training specializes in increasing the overall size and volume of your muscles, allowing your skin to cling tighter to the underlying tissue. You can find a good sample hypertrophy routine here . Bodyweight routines are fine too , if that's more of your jam, so long as they are implemented correctly. ​Are Bodyweight Exercises Effective? Dear Lifehacker,
	
	I like the idea of 
	getting a workout without extra equipment, but some people … Read more Read Advertisement Lastly, make sure to keep protein intake high . During caloric deficit this will not only prevent the loss of lean mass (or "muscle catabolization"), but also ensure that you have the optimum amount for building muscle. You can use the "Alan Aragon" rule to find your minimum daily protein target. Create Higher Protein Versions of Common Foods For More Diet Success Sometimes, it&apos;s hard to get enough protein without feeling like you need to eat an entire… Read more Read Get Even Leaner Advertisement I've observed that loose skin is less of an issue for those who get down to lower levels of bodyfat—around 10% bodyfat for men and 20% for women. Of course, this could simply be due to survival bias . For example, perhaps folks without loose skin issues in the first place are more motivated to keep continuing their progress. But Dr. Ron Brown, author of "The Body Fat Guide" doesn't think so, and has a compelling explanation: what many perceive as "loose skin" is actually excess fat . Measuring the thickness of these hanging folds of skin provides evidence that there is still a substantial amount of body fat underneath the skin. The skin is not so much "loose" as it is flabby due to excess body fat. Even if some areas have completely thinned out, excess body fat is likely to be stored in adjacent areas that contribute to the overall flabby condition. Still, there are certainly cases where nothing short of surgery will help. But there there is evidence to suggest that loose skin issues can be improved by losing more fat. Advertisement "Just get even leaner" is easier said than done, obviously. Getting to the required level of bodyfat may take years, even decades, but fitness is a never ending journey anyway. Still, there's comfort in knowing that if you have loose skin, some level of improvement is still under your control without the need for surgery. Images by Arno Meintjes , Pascal , and Alan Cleaver . Vitals is a new blog from Lifehacker all about health and fitness. Follow us on Twitter here . Advertisement You may also like Vitals ​Are Bodyweight Exercises Effective? Dick Talens 2/06/15 11:00am Vitals How to Do Skincare When You Have a Beard Beth Skwarecki Saturday 4:00pm The Concourse Feds: Drunk T.J. Miller Argued With Woman On Train And Called In False Bomb Threat Patrick Redford 50 minutes ago Recent from Dick Talens 10 4 18.9K Stick to Your Fitness Regimen by Thinking Like an App Developer Dick Talens 11/23/15 11:00am 6 20 18.8K How to Enjoy the Holidays Without Messing Up Your Weight Loss Dick Talens 11/12/15 5:00pm 23 33 84.7K Your Stubbornness Is the Real Reason You Aren&apos;t Losing Weight Dick Talens 10/06/15 1:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.       IMPORTANT! YOU MUST READ THIS BEFORE CONTINUING: By viewing the web pages on bodyfatguide.com ,
you agree to be solely responsible for any adverse effects on your health that results from the application of the
information on this web site, and you agree to release the website owner from liability for all damages,
injuries, or other adverse events that you may incur. Never attempt a diet and exercise
program without consulting a physician.      The Official Newsletter of Bodyfatguide.com  Updated: September 4, 2016   The
Myth of Loose Skin  Read more articles  by Ron Brown, Ph.D., B.Sc.
Dietetics, author of The
Body Fat Guide       "Ron
Brown is a certified fitness trainer who doesn't have an inch of flab on
his body. He'll tell you what you can do to become fit and trim too." TALK
TO AMERICA, Washington DC           A WOMAN once asked my advice concerning her loose skin,
      which remained with her despite losing a great deal of excess bodyweight
      following her pregnancy. I advised her to continue losing body fat until her
      skin tightened up. Here is part of her angry response to my advice:  "I am disgusted with the way you responded to my question...Not only did it not make any sense, but what
      you were saying was ridiculous, absurd, and physically impossible."  "...after giving birth to a baby eight months ago, and with having to let my body try and recover from gaining 87 lbs during the
      pregnancy...you would think that my body would have had some changes made to
      it. After a tiny 108 pound body stretches to almost double its size, you
      better bet that you're going to have some major stretched skin."    "And being the 'expert' that you claim to be, you should
know this already... If someone gains a large amount of weight in a short time, or loses the large amount of weight in a even shorter
time, there will be extra skin there because it does not have the fat underneath it anymore to make the skin expand to where it was before."  "The skin cannot go back in with just dieting alone because it doesn't have
any more 'fat' underneath it to get rid of, and it doesn't have the extra layers of
fat on the body to cover anymore, so it just hangs there, left as a reminder of how fat you once were, and how much your body was forced to
stretch out to accommodate the large amount of weight that was gained. By
exercising, the skin does pull in some-with the muscle, but there will still be excess skin left on the body that
can't be 'starved off.'"         Skin Thickness
      and Elasticity Many
      people would agree that this woman's argument appears to make sense. In such cases,
      plastic surgery is usually offered as the best solution to eliminate
      hanging remnants of excess, lax, or redundant skin, especially if the
      condition is associated with skin disorders. But, a closer look reveals this logic to
      be faulty. Is loose skin really unavoidable and inevitable after
      substantial weight loss? I believe the answer is no!  The human integumentary system (skin) is not a passive
      layer of tissue that remains stretched out like an empty plastic bag after
      losing large amounts of bodyweight. The argument of the woman above about
      the cause of loose skin is a
      myth. Rather, skin is a living organ, actively
      adapting to the body's internal and external environments. People on
      extended fasts consuming nothing more than water have demonstrated that
      the skin can lose 20% or more of its size. The skin is usually thickest on the soles of the
      feet, and thinnest on the eyelids. As a typical example of your skin's
      thickness, pinch the skin on the back of your hand.  If
      it were true, as this woman claims, that the folds of skin hanging off her
      body had absolutely no fat left underneath to diet away, every inch of
      this skin would hang in sheets as thin as folds of paper.         However, common observation of the folds of skin in such examples reveals this
is not usually the case. Measuring the thickness of these hanging folds of skin provides
evidence that there is still a substantial amount of body fat underneath the
skin. The skin is not so much "loose" as it is flabby due to excess
      body fat. Even if some
      areas have completely thinned out, excess body fat is likely to be stored in adjacent areas that contribute to the overall flabby condition.  Age is claimed to be a factor that reduces
skin elasticity and thus reduces the ability of the skin to readjust it's size after weight
loss. However, many cases of loose skin are found in relatively young people who have lost
weight, so the effect of age on skin elasticity is not really a factor in all
      cases, if at all.  A change in a woman's body shape before and after normal
      pregnancy is another example of the skin's flexibility to snap back to
      normal size. By normal pregnancy, however, I mean without large
      accumulations of excess body fat, unlike the case of the woman above.        The Cause of "Loose Skin"  Why does the skin sometimes take on this hanging appearance
      (e.g., abdominal pannus) during the course of losing large amounts of weight?
      Why is it that not everyone who loses weight has this problem? Why do we
      see flabby skin develop even in people who have lost much less weight?
      What is the difference between those people who suffer from flabby or loose skin, and those who achieve weight loss while completely
      or partially avoiding this problem?  In my opinion, the droopy appearance of folds of skin is most probably
      caused by crash diets that sacrifice large amounts of supporting muscle, or lean body mass. Even less
      severe diets and weight loss from bariatric surgery can result in a substantial amount of muscle loss over time. Perhaps
      future scientific research will show a correlation between loss of lean
      body mass on a diet with the development of redundant skin.  In the meanwhile, here's an example to illustrate how muscle loss on a diet can
cause droopy folds of flabby, loose skin. Let's say you start at a bodyweight of 115 pounds, in good
toned shape with firm skin,
      but you gradually gain 100 pounds of body fat.
      You then go on some sort of crash weight-loss program or have bariatric
surgery to quickly lose those 100 pounds.  However, let's say not all of the weight you lose is body fat.
Perhaps 20% of your lost weight is muscle. This is not unusual on a severe
crash diet, and many people lose much more muscle than that on these diets. In
fact, if you were to fast on just water, 60% of your weight loss would be
muscle.       And, because muscle can rapidly dehydrate and sacrifice protein to provide an additional supply of
      energy to your body,
      muscle loss increases the more active you are on a severe diet. But
let's stick to a modest number of 20% muscle loss in this example. Now,
after your severe diet, you have returned to your starting bodyweight of 115
pounds, but your internal body composition is altered. You have 20 fewer pounds
of muscle on your body, and 20 more pounds of body fat, even though you weigh as much as you
did before you put on the extra weight! The percentage of your bodyweight that
      is fat is now higher than before you gained weight. Would you expect your body to look as
      shapely and firm under these circumstances, with a higher percentage of
      body fat? NO! At 115 pounds, body parts that used to be filled with toned
      muscle are now filled with a greater volume of flabby fat instead. Pound
      for pound, fat takes up more volume than muscle, pushing farther out until
      it begins to hang
in folds of skin. Continuing on with your diet only exacerbates the problem as
      your muscle level drops even more. Even worse, if your bodyweight dips
      below your healthy starting point, you are now too thin and covered with
      flabby skin! Now, imagine the effect if you lose
      several hundred pounds of bodyweight, and your muscle loss is twice as
      much, 40-50% or more of lost bodyweight. Those voluminous folds of flab
      can become an enormous problem.         Non-Surgical Removal of "Loose Skin" To
eliminate and prevent the droopy appearance of the remnants of excess body fat
during and following
weight loss, without resorting to surgical procedures, you must
change your body composition, not just lose bodyweight. That means paying
particular attention to the ratio of your body fat to muscle, or lean body mass.
Preventing loss of
      lean body mass while dieting to lose body fat will dramatically
improve your appearance. "I lost ten pounds in one
week!" How often has the public seen such advertisements for rapid weight
loss? Everybody wants fast results. But even if you manage to lose ten pounds in
a week, the real question is what kind of pounds did you lose? Muscle? Fat?
Imagine discovering that you lost 9.5 pounds of muscle and only half a pound of
fat in one week! That's the dirty little secret of rapid weight loss claims. Now
imagine the psychological shock if you discover that after all your hard work to
take off 100 pounds this past year, you need to gain back 75 of those pounds as
muscle. The quick-fix weight loss method is not worth the effort. Almost every dieter has
experienced rapid weight regain after dieting. Aside from regained body fat
resulting from a return to overeating habits, many people don't realize that regained
bodyweight can often include a significant amount of replenished lean body mass that was lost during dieting.
Dieters actually look and feel betterless haggard and with less droopy skinafter
regaining this kind of lean weight. So, how is muscle
lost on a diet, anyway?  During a diet a process
called gluconeogenesis (which means a
new source of glucose) utilizes muscle and body fat to supply energy not provided
by food. For each pound burned during gluconeogenesis, 60% is burned
from muscle and 40% from fat. Twenty-five percent of bodyweight lost on very-low
calorie diets (400-800 calories) is from muscle and supporting connective tissue (Saris,
"Very-low-calorie diets and sustained weight loss," Obesity
Research , 2001).  In my opinion, the best approach to avoid muscle loss
while dieting is to supply a
daily calorie intake equal to no less than your resting metabolic rate, the calories burned
by your muscle mass at rest, which is about 1,200 to 1,800 calories or higher for most people.
Professional bodybuilders have resting metabolic rates over 3,000 calories! Do
not estimate your resting metabolic rate according to your bodyweight. Scientists have developed
formulas to calculate resting metabolic rate according to fat-free or lean body
mass levels. See The Body Fat Guide  to calculate your exact resting metabolic rate according to your lean
body mass. This calorie intake, and perhaps a few hundred additional calories
depending on your activity level, is the minimum amount needed to maintain and replenish
your muscle as body fat is burned off through physical activity, much as an athlete
burns off body fat in training. You never see serious athletes like Olympic
champion Michael Phelps training while eating
only 400-800 calories! Athletes get lean by relying on exercise to burn fat while eating
enough to maintain muscle. Don't expect optimal results from sitting around and
"starving" yourself. Dietitians suggest people
increase their activity by 500 calories a day and cut their normal calorie
intake by 500 calories. Stated more precisely, burn off body fat by
eliminating only the portion of your diet
that would otherwise fuel your usual daily activity (assuming it equals 500
calories), and burn off an additional 500
calories of body fat with additional activity, equivalent to 1-2 hours of normal
walking for most people, depending on your bodyweight. This leaves you enough food to
maintain muscle while losing two pounds of body fat a week. That's a good
deal that no quick-fix diet can match! The Body Fat Guide  will show you exactly how to do it. Two pounds of body fat lost a week is only a
suggestion, not dogma. People have different activity levels and resting
metabolic rates. Once you understand and master dieting without muscle loss
you can customize and accelerate your training for even greater results,
provided you are willing to
put in the work. People often become motivated to work harder to achieve greater
results, but they are held back by lacking the knowledge to do it properly.  For
example, many people misunderstand the advice
to exercise and cut their calorie intake by 500 calories. Five-hundred calories
isn't very much, and people may figure they can get better results by cutting
1,000 or more calories from their diet. Sure enough, they begin to see their
weight drop rapidly when they cutback by more than 500 calories, which
reinforces their dieting behavior. But they don't understand that the suggestion
to cut their diet by 500 calories only applies to calories burned from normal
activity; it doesn't apply to the calories needed to maintain their resting
metabolic rate and muscle mass. Their rapid weight loss is mainly muscle. When dietitians warn that severe dieting slows down your
metabolism and reduces fat loss, what they really mean is that muscle loss on a
severe diet reduces your resting metabolic rate. In the meantime, fat loss
continues as your body becomes flabbier with loose skin. Loose skin from dieting
is not a matter of how fast or slow you lose bodyweightit's a matter of
whether you provide sufficient calories to avoid or replenish depleted muscle. Periodically replenishing
depleted lean body mass with controlled, small increases in your calorie intake
is how you avoid an overall net loss of muscle during or after dieting.   Because a muscle's volume consists of 70% fluid, muscle
usually begins to replenish very rapidly as soon as you begin to increase your
calorie intake back     toward a normal maintenance intake amount. This
      replenishment helps provide the firmness and fullness to muscle that is
      lacking in flabby skin. However, you must
take extreme care to avoid over-replenishment above maintenance calorie levels, which will start increasing your
body fat level again! In effect, your dieting isn't really complete until you have
fully replenished all your muscle losses without regaining body fat.  Lean body mass replenishment can occur
in small daily amounts each dieting day. For example, on a moderate
restricted diet of
approximately 1200-1800 calories only a portion
      of each dieting day is actually spent in a state of gluconeogenesis
when your
      calorie intake briefly dips below your calorie
expenditures, as occurs when you are
      engaged in physical activity. Muscle losses are replenished during those portions of the day when
      your calorie intake briefly rises above your calorie expenditures, for
      example, following a meal.  By the way, it makes absolutely no
      difference when you eat your meals or engage in activity while on a diet,
      because the total net difference between your calorie intake and
      expenditures, known as your energy balance, will still come out the same
      over the course of 24 hours. To monitor and modify your energy balance,
      see The Body Fat Guide . On
      the other hand, lean body mass replenishment can also occur over several days
following a period of very strict dieting, fasting, or alternate-day fasting. For example, a person who fasts for several days is in a continuous
      state of gluconeogenesis, and often follows the fast with a controlled
      re-feeding period to restore healthy lean weight. Interestingly, I believe
      part of the reason why more females than males develop anorexia is because
      females, in general, tend to omit this
      recovery of muscle from dieting, which they consider unimportant in their
      drive for thinness. Generally, males are less likely to disregard replenishment of
      their muscle mass. See Never Thin Enough .
      I also believe that most females, including anorexia patients, are
      interested in having "toned muscle." What they may not
      understand is that muscle tone is maintained through adequate caloric
      intake, regardless how much one exercises.  Monitoring body composition
      levels of lean
body mass will guide you in determining the correct balance between your calorie
intake and calorie expenditures, which will allow you to replenish and maintain
      levels of lean body mass that are burned while dieting. See The
      Body Fat Guide to monitor changes in your lean body mass and body fat
      levels. Experienced
      dieters often take a weekly "break day" from dieting, knowing
      that it recharges them. Regardless if replenishment occurs daily, every
      several days, or weekly or more, failure to
restore depleted lean body mass is the number one cause of "loose skin." It is possible to be at the ideal bodyweight according to
      Body Mass Index charts (BMI), but still have too much body fat and not enough lean body mass. For example, a young woman in her twenties with
      "loose skin" recently appeared on a popular radio talk show. 
      She had lost over two-hundred pounds in one year, and her bodyweight at 5' 8" was now in the 120's. Yet, her abdomen was covered with flabby skin that hung off of her. I would guess there is at least another 20 pounds of excess body fat stored in those folds of skin. However, if she lost  another 20
pounds of bodyweight, she would obviously look like an emaciated stick! But, that's not because she is too low in body fat...it's because she lacks
      sufficient lean body
      mass! My suggestion to
      this young woman would be to replenish her lost lean body mass with a
      healthy balanced diet, and to tone her muscle with weight training (See Muscle
      Mass Myths ). After increasing her bodyweight with 20 pounds of replenished lean body mass, she can then lose the rest of her excess body fat, without sacrificing any
      more lean body mass. Then she would have
      both a normal bodyweight AND a normal body composition. What
      is required to avoid muscle loss during a diet, and gain back lost muscle, is an easy method to measure changes in one's body composition
(muscle and body fat levels),
      and a method to monitor and modify one's energy balance, which is the
      balance between the calories one eats and burns each day. Such a method is
      available in The Body Fat Guide . Keeping
      track of changes in your body composition using  The Body Fat Guide  allows you to see how much muscle you
      are losing on a diet, and more importantly, it allows you to make calorie
      intake changes to prevent or replenish that loss. Using the scale alone, most
      dieters are unaware of their body composition changes. For example, if you start your diet
      at 220 pounds with 34% body fat and end at 135 pounds with 18% body fat,
      you might expect to look toned and trim after having lost 85 pounds of
      bodyweight and reducing your body fat percentage almost in half, but  The Body Fat Guide  will show you that you will have also lost 35 pounds of muscle in
      the process, and you will probably have plenty of
      flabby skin as a result! If you don't want this to happen to you, use The Body Fat Guide  regularly to measure changes in your body fat and muscle levels and adjust your diet until you get
      perfect results! It may seem
      counterintuitive at first to think that you need to eat more calories to
      maintain the muscle and energy you need to exercise more and burn off body
      fat. Why not just eat fewer calories to reduce your weight without all
      that work? The answer is that you need to eat sufficient calories to
      maintain your lean body mass, otherwise changes in your body composition
      will not be optimal.        Here is a letter I received from another woman since first
publishing this article:  "Hi! I've read literally hundreds of online sites regarding loose skin which seems to
inevitably accompany weight loss. Your site is the only one to list positive
news regarding this dilemma! Every other site states loose skin is unavoidable,
with post weight-loss surgery as the only solution, which of course is extremely
discouraging.  How successful is your advice; does it always work if
followed properly? I've read hundreds of personal stories at various forums and
everyone seems plagued with loose skin after weight loss. I've read your article
on loose skin and I need some further encouragement and convincing!"  It has been many years since this article on loose skin
first appeared on the web. I have received numerous positive responses from
people who have read the article and have since applied my advice. However, before presenting a
testimonial at the end of this article from a reader, here is my response to the
woman above.  Anyone who actually measures their level of body fat
(very few people know how to do that...that's where my book can help) can easily
see that, even after losing substantial amounts of bodyweight, they may still
have plenty of body fat remaining under their skin.  Perhaps you are a male who reduced from 40% body fat all
the way down to 12-18% body fat. That's an impressive amount of progress!
However, if you expect to pose for the cover of a fitness magazine, consider
that bodybuilders and male fitness models regard themselves as fat at 12-18% body fat, and usually begin
dieting down to 5% body fat or less. In a 1994 research article titled "The
lower limit of body fat in healthy active men," Friedl et al. suggested
that approximately 5.5 lbs of body fat is the minimum healthy level in
males.  There's nothing special about losing
excess body fat in "loose skin," provided you know how to properly measure
and modify your diet and activity level. But, restricting yourself to certain
foods and following unbalanced diets won't teach you how to manage that. When a person relies exclusively on an unbalanced diet to lose
weight they eventually reach a plateau due to nutritional imbalances, boredom
and cravings.  The advantage to learning how to lose weight by correctly
balancing the number of calories you eat and burn each day is that you can
adjust so many factors to keep on making
progress. You can eat
whatever you want as part of a well-balanced diet to avoid cravings and
imbalances. You can     change the speed of your loss, slower or faster as you like,
and you can exercise at a pace that suits you. If you go over your calorie
intake allowance on your diet, simply consider the extra calories as part of
your next day's allowance and get back on track without losing any time. You
have complete control and flexibility over the balance between your calorie
intake and calorie expenditures. This enables you to continue on to reach and
maintain your
weight-loss goal in a way that an unbalanced diet alone never can! More importantly, by monitoring changes in your muscle and body fat levels,
something the scale alone can't do, and by modifying your calorie intake to
avoid cutting calories too drastically, you will maintain your lean body mass
and prevent loose skin.  I have received letters from readers asking for
photos to prove my argument. People have become so brainwashed by
before-and-after photos that they neglect simple logic. I challenge anyone to
show me a photo of a woman with 10% body fat who has loose skin. No
one will be able to do so because a woman with 10% body fat has very little excess body fat, and
therefore she has no
"loose skin," regardless how overweight she may have once been. (Click for examples of female Hollywood
Celebrities with 10% body fat.)  So, the answer to your question is, yes, anyone can non-surgically reduce skin
folds of excess body fat, provided they follow the body
composition and energy balance numbers until the job is done right...and if anyone else doubts you and
tells you it can't be done because they didn't do it, ask to see their body
composition and energy balance numbers. After they scratch their head, you can explain it all to
them! Of course, you can always elect to have surgery to
fix your "loose skin" problem, but consider this: First, the more you improve your
condition before surgery by natural means, the better your chance of having a
safe outcome after surgery. But, second, and more importantly, ask yourself what
is going to prevent you from regaining the weight all over again, even after
surgery? Sooner or later, you will have to deal with the root cause of your
problem, which is your inability to control your weight because you don't know
how to properly modify the balance
between the calories you eat and burn each day. There is a way to learn that... The Body Fat
Guide . To
read a positive, unsolicited and unedited testimonial about loose skin received
from a reader in December 2004, click here .    Click
for more information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Menu           What to Do About Loose Skin After Weight Loss         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements     View More      Featured Tools    Recipe Nutrition Calculator    Weight Loss Calorie Goal    BMI Calculator    Daily Calories Burned       Caffeine Anhydrous  Exercise Timing  Boba  5x5 Workout  Healthy Breakfast Sandwich  Weight Gain Pills        Fitness     Workouts  For Beginners  Cardio  Strength  Running  Yoga   View All          Healthy Eating     Recipes  Nutrition Facts  Smart Strategies  Snacking  Dietary Supplements  Sports Nutrition   View All          Weight Loss     Nutrition  Exercise  Diet Plans  Eat Well Inspiration  Dining Out  Procedures   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Procedures  What to Do About Loose Skin After Weight Loss  Solutions to Prevent, Minimize, or Manage Excess Skin After Losing Weight    By Jennifer R. Scott | Reviewed by Richard N. Fogoros, MD    Updated March 02, 2018            Share       Pin       Email      Print                  Peter Dazeley Collection/Photographer's Choice/Getty Images       More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements        If you have a lot of weight to lose, you may be concerned about having loose skin once you reach your goal. Weight loss reality shows and plastic surgery makeover shows often show this loose skin after a significant weight loss . Learn why this happens and your options for avoiding or treating this problem. Why You Get Excess Skin After Weight Loss If you lose a considerable amount of weight, you may have loose or excess skin once you have reached a normal, healthy weight.         The degree to which you may experience this depends on a few factors. The elasticity of your skin before and during the weight loss process determines how much—​if any— loose skin you will have. Younger skin that is more elastic is able to snap back more effectively to its original shape. Older skin is less elastic and may not shrink back as well. Your chance of having excess skin is significantly affected by how much weight you have to lose and how quickly you lose it. When you lose weight quickly , your skin may not shrink as fast as you'd like. Most people who lose 100 pounds or more will have an issue with excess or hanging skin when they reach their goal weight. How long you have been overweight or obese can also affect your skin's ability to rebound from being stretched out. The less time you have spent overweight, the more likely it is that your skin will return to normal. Where Does Loose Skin Occur? The excess skin is usually abdominal skin that reaches down well past the belly area.   Loose skin after weight loss can happen in other areas as well. Some dieters experience saggy skin in the arms and around the bra line. Some even get loose skin in the thigh and buttocks area. Prevention of Loose Skin During Weight Loss A slow and steady weight loss one or two pounds a week is the ideal rate and will help save your skin's elasticity.         The quicker you lose your weight, the more likely you are to have a problem with excess skin. In addition to slow and steady weight loss, you can also build muscle to shape the tissue underneath sagging skin. How to Manage Loose Skin After Weight Loss If you notice loose skin, and especially if you are getting chafing or find the movement of loose skin annoying during activity, you may want to wear compression garments. These are widely available for both men and women for sports as well smoothing your shape under clothing. If excess skin is causing chafing that leads to skin infections, you may need to consider surgery. You might also want to have a procedure performed simply to improve the appearance of your body after weight loss. There are different types of surgery available. Some patients consider a body lift , a cosmetic surgery procedure that lifts and tightens skin at various locations on the body. Another procedure is called an abdominoplasty or "tummy tuck." This surgical method lifts and tightens just the stomach area. Some plastic surgeons can also perform a thigh lift for loose skin in the lower body. These procedures are serious operations and, like other surgeries, pose a risk of complications.         Insurance rarely covers these types of procedures. A Word From Verywell While you may be concerned about loose skin, if you are overweight or obese you will improve your health by losing weight . If you have loose skin after weight loss, talk to your doctor about skin tightening surgeries and methods that can improve both the function and the look of your body.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  Is There Any Way to Get Rid of Loose Skin After Losing Weight?           Article  How to Fix Loose Skin After Weight Loss           List  Why You Give Up on Exercise           Article  What to Expect After Bariatric Surgery           Article  3 Ways to Tighten Loose Skin Without Surgery           Article  Will I Still Have Stretch Marks After Weight Loss?           Article  The Stomach Balloon That Might Help You Lose Weight           Article  What is Weight Loss Surgery?                          Article  Should You Try a Stomach Pump to Lose Weight?           Article  Simple Lifestyle Habits That Help Banish Cellulite           Article  What Is a Calorie Deficit and How Do I Use It to Lose Weight?           Article  What Are the Risks of Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  What You Can Do About Belly Fat Rolls           List  How to Lose Thigh Fat           Article  Are You a Candidate For Weight-Loss Surgery?           Article  Is the Set Point Theory a Fact or a Myth?                               Daily Healthy Eating Tips to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Fitness  Healthy Eating  Weight Loss     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Menu           If I Lose Weight Will I Have Loose Skin?         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements     View More      Featured Tools    Recipe Nutrition Calculator    Weight Loss Calorie Goal    BMI Calculator    Daily Calories Burned       Caffeine Anhydrous  Exercise Timing  Boba  5x5 Workout  Healthy Breakfast Sandwich  Weight Gain Pills        Fitness     Workouts  For Beginners  Cardio  Strength  Running  Yoga   View All          Healthy Eating     Recipes  Nutrition Facts  Smart Strategies  Snacking  Dietary Supplements  Sports Nutrition   View All          Weight Loss     Nutrition  Exercise  Diet Plans  Eat Well Inspiration  Dining Out  Procedures   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Procedures  If I Lose Weight Will I Have Loose Skin?  Find out how much weight loss will cause loose skin    By Malia Frey  | Reviewed by Richard N. Fogoros, MD    Updated February 27, 2018            Share       Pin       Email      Print                  imagedepotpro / Getty Images       More in Weight Loss        Procedures       Basics     Nutrition for Weight Loss     Exercise for Weight Loss     Diet Plans     Medications     Pills and Supplements        People who have worked hard to slim down weight often worry about excess skin. Many wonder, if I lose weight will I have loose skin? or exactly how much weight loss will cause loose skin? These are reasonable questions because in some cases, the loose skin causes as many problems as the excess pounds that they worked so hard to lose. If you have extra skin after maweight loss surgery, you know how frustrating it can be.         But there are some solutions that can help. There are exercises, surgical and non-surgical medical procedures that may help you tighten your skin . Loose Skin After Weight Loss is Normal To find out more about the problem of excess skin, I talked to Dr. Ninh T. Nguyen, MD, the former president of the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) . He explained that many bariatric surgery patients have loose skin after surgery. Dr. Nguyen says that sagging excess skin is one of the most common problems that weight loss surgery patients face . "It can be one of the biggest hurdles," he says. But he adds that it's not a problem that patients will face alone. Dr. Nguyen counsels his patients before surgery about what to expect during the entire weight loss process. He continues to see patients for the rest of their lives following surgery. If loose skin becomes a medical issue due to infection or if the patient is uncomfortable about the look of the skin, the surgeon will work together with the patient to figure out the best option for their particular condition.   Will I Have Loose Skin After Weight Loss? There are a few factors that may affect whether you'll have excess skin and how much loose skin you'll get after losing weight. Patients who are smokers may be at higher risk for loose skin. So quitting your cigarette habit may be help decrease your risk. In addition, slow, steady weight loss can help prevent loose skin because it gives the skin more time to regain elasticity and recover.          Quick weight loss , on the other hand, can make loose skin more common. Age is another factor. "Older patients (generally 50 years and over) are at higher risk for getting loose skin after weight loss because their skin is less elastic and less able to recover from the change in size." says Nguyen. And of course, the amount of weight you lose matters as well. But you wouldn't want to end your journey to a healthy weight simply to avoid loose skin. According to the ASMBS, even though the treatment of loose skin around the arms and certain other areas is not covered by insurance, "plastic surgery for removal of excess abdominal and breast skin is often covered by insurance for reasons of moisture, hygiene and rash issues." How to Prevent Loose Skin After Weight Loss In some cases, excess skin can be prevented or minimized. Dr. Nguyen says that exercise is one of the best ways to deal with it. "It's not perfect," he says, "but it helps to tighten both the muscle and the skin." But starting and sticking to an exercise program can be difficult if you don't like the way you look. There are certain forms of exercise that are better for you if you are overweight.  It's generally best to start slow and gradually increase your workload as your fitness level improves.         Add strength training workouts to shape and tone the muscles and flexibility exercises to keep your joints limber and comfortable.  If you're short on time, combine into a circuit style workout to make your sessions more efficient. Surgery for Loose Skin In some cases, surgery can improve loose skin. Surgeons generally recommend that you wait at least 18 months after bariatric surgery before getting evaluated for loose skin. Before that time, your body is going through too many changes. For excess skin on the abdomen, there are typically two procedures from which to choose: Abdominoplasty: Both the muscle and the skin of the abdomen are tightened during this surgical procedure. Because it is considered a cosmetic surgery, it is not usually covered by insurance.  Panniculectomy: Your doctor may recommend this procedure if you are experiencing skin breakdown or infection from loose skin or hanging skin on your abdomen. During the surgery, excess skin is removed and tightened, but the muscles are not tightened. Many insurance providers are more likely to cover this procedure. Some patients also end up with loose skin in the lower body and choose a thigh lift procedure which helps to tighten skin on the thighs and create a leaner look in the legs. There will be patients who choose not to go under the knife to get rid of loose skin. Compression garments for exercise or normal daily wear can help you to look and feel more confident in your new body. A Word from Verywell If you have loose skin after weight loss surgery, your best resource is your bariatric surgeon. He or she will be able to answer questions about your specific condition and make the best recommendation for you. If you've got excess skin from weight lost through traditional methods and exercise hasn't helped, consider speaking to your health care provider. Your excess skin may be both manageable and treatable.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  How to Prevent and Get Rid of Excess Skin After Losing Weight           Article  Will Wellbutrin Help Me Lose Weight?           Article  Is There Any Way to Get Rid of Loose Skin After Losing Weight?           Article  3 Ways to Tighten Loose Skin Without Surgery           Article  What to Expect After Bariatric Surgery           Article  Questions to Ask Before Choosing Bariatric Surgery           List  How You Can Lose Weight in Middle Age           Article  Can You Lose Weight By Only Cutting Calories?                          Article  You Can Still Schedule a Short Workout and Have the Benefits           Article  What Are the Risks of Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  What is Weight Loss Surgery?           Article  Help! I'm Over 40 and I Can't Lose Weight!           Article  The Best Diet for a Bride-to-Be           Article  5 Common Weight Loss Questions           Article  Can You Lose Weight Fast for Your Wedding? Here's What You Can Safely Do           Article  How to Provide Care After Bariatric Surgery                               Daily Healthy Eating Tips to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Fitness  Healthy Eating  Weight Loss     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                           Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   20 years old - loose skin              Results 1 to 17 of 17     Thread: 20 years old - loose skin        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     07-08-2012, 02:16 AM    #1        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                       20 years old - loose skin    Guys, from the end of march I have gone from 204 pounds to 164 pounds (as of this morning)  I'm still not as thin as i want to be yet - ive been losing by being on a VERY low calorie diet.  What are the chances of me having loose skin after this weight loss. When I look in the mirror i still have more to lose, but im not sure if the skin on my stomach IS loose skin but rather just fat that i still need to lose.  Thanks   Also, if it IS loose skin, what are the chances of it tightening up again? As the title says, im 20 years old.                    07-08-2012, 03:17 AM    #2        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                         bump                    07-08-2012, 03:26 AM    #3        ossme     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Crawling to Success       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates  Age: 33  Posts: 14  Rep Power: 0                 First of all, 40Lbs of weight loss sounds great ! Congratulations !  Could  you please provide more information about your self? you height ? body measurements ? pictures ? How much time did it take you to lose those 40 pounds ? did you do weight lifting in the process ?                    07-08-2012, 03:31 AM    #4        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                               Originally Posted by ossme    First of all, 40Lbs of weight loss sounds great ! Congratulations !  Could  you please provide more information about your self? you height ? body measurements ? pictures ? How much time did it take you to lose those 40 pounds ? did you do weight lifting in the process ?    Thanks for the quick response man.  I'm about 5 foot 10. I was 14stone 8 (around 208 pounds) on the second of april and as of this morning, july 8th, i am 164 pounds. I took some pictures earlier but can't find my USB cable but will upload as quickly as possible!                        07-08-2012, 03:48 AM    #5        ShavingFoam     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: May 2012  Posts: 137  Rep Power: 0                       Pics    Heres a pic from this morning. Once again, 20 years old, about 5 foot 10, Just over 11 stone 9 (just above 163 pounds)     Attached Images     Eightjuly.png‎ (319.4 KB, 1868 views)                       07-08-2012, 04:35 AM    #6        dmacdonal9     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Feb 2012  Location: Halifax, NS, Canada  Age: 44  Posts: 11,534  Rep Power: 21733                           Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.                    07-08-2012, 05:23 AM    #7        kevi204     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2011  Posts: 1,040  Rep Power: 164                                 Originally Posted by dmacdonal9    Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.    ^^this                    07-08-2012, 09:54 PM    #8        ossme     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Crawling to Success       Join Date: Jan 2006  Location: Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates  Age: 33  Posts: 14  Rep Power: 0                 Yeah, I don't see it an issue at all. Even if there is any loose skin it will just come back to normal by time.  Just make Sure that you train as it will help in shaping things up.                    07-08-2012, 10:23 PM    #9        GuiltyOfWinning     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2012  Location: France  Posts: 1,300  Rep Power: 273                           building some lean muscle will help tighten everything up as well                        07-09-2012, 03:10 AM    #10        truushot     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Banned       Join Date: Jun 2012  Location: Illinois, United States  Age: 48  Posts: 1,584  Rep Power: 0                           The gym is calling!!! You've got a good shot of looking very good in short order if you lift.                    07-09-2012, 03:32 AM    #11        DevastatorMike     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2012  Location: New Jersey, United States  Posts: 119  Rep Power: 104                           Bump....                    07-09-2012, 03:50 AM    #12        ayoliang     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Banned       Join Date: Jun 2012  Age: 20  Posts: 593  Rep Power: 0                           Congrats man! I reccomend you buy waist trimmers, there only 5 dollars. Will help with fatloss and loose skin. Golds gym waist trimmers from walmart.                    07-09-2012, 05:41 AM    #13        YouMadDawg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      I don't skip leg day.       Join Date: Jan 2011  Location: Fort Drum, New York, United States  Posts: 375  Rep Power: 160                                 Originally Posted by ayoliang    Congrats man! I reccomend you buy waist trimmers, there only 5 dollars. Will help with fatloss and loose skin. Golds gym waist trimmers from walmart.    Which does nothing but pull water from the gut area. Not fat.     brb, transformin'  November 2016: 203 pounds, 12.1% bodyfat (BodPod, October 2016).                   07-09-2012, 06:57 AM    #14        d3lf     View Profile     View Forum Posts      ))<>(( Forever.       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: United States  Posts: 4,573  Rep Power: 10970                           you need to lift                        07-09-2012, 07:01 AM    #15        cebby1985     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Dec 2011  Age: 32  Posts: 224  Rep Power: 162                           Lift heavy. Eat more protein and for gods sake buy some bigger shorts. No loose skin just more fat to lose                    07-09-2012, 02:48 PM    #16        roybatty6     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2011  Location: Australia  Age: 44  Posts: 1,939  Rep Power: 223                                 Originally Posted by dmacdonal9    Can't see it being an issue, especially at your age.  There's nothing sagging in those pics.    What this guy said.  Your 20, dude. You got plenty of time.  Lift heavy and get enough daily protein, and aim to lose no more than 1kg per week.  I got no loose skin after losing 80kgs in a relatively short period of time.     -80 kgs in 15 months. -100 kgs goal (75kgs bodyweight)  Abs on a skinny guy is like a fatgirl with big tits, it doesn't count.                   07-09-2012, 03:17 PM    #17        SeventhDay     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2012  Posts: 17  Rep Power: 0                           Hey don't worry about it man. I'm 5'8.5 - 5'9 and I went from 215 to 164 quickly and never had any loose skin. Just keep lifting and cardio.                            Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Tips on basic skin care etc for men  By riddlingminion in forum Misc.    Replies: 13  Last Post: 11-22-2009, 11:19 AM       More on being immortal in 20 years...  By BigMacMeal in forum Misc.    Replies: 103  Last Post: 09-24-2009, 03:39 PM       20 year old female and dont know where to start.....  By Alex101 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 53  Last Post: 05-06-2005, 07:52 PM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                                    Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   Question about loosing weight and loose skin              Results 1 to 14 of 14     Thread: Question about loosing weight and loose skin        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     10-25-2010, 03:25 AM    #1        BiHStL     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Aug 2010  Age: 30  Posts: 18  Rep Power: 0                         Question about loosing weight and loose skin    I am 22 years old and have recently changed my life for the better, and am now working out and eating better.  I started at 278 lbs, and in the last 4 or so months have lost 20 pounds, as well as put on a good deal of muscle.  My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?                    10-25-2010, 04:56 AM    #2        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by BiHStL    I am 22 years old and have recently changed my life for the better, and am now working out and eating better.  I started at 278 lbs, and in the last 4 or so months have lost 20 pounds, as well as put on a good deal of muscle.  My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?    congrats on your weight loss brother!  since you are young your skin should snap back into place quickly, especially when you start filling out with muscle later, take some fish oil supplements and don't worry about loose skin, just get the fat out first, worry about skin later.  I started at 350 in January and I am down to 225 atm, I have loose skin sure, but nowhere near as much as I thought I would have      Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-25-2010, 07:17 AM    #3        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by BiHStL    My question is what can I do to try and prevent saggy skin, especially in my stomach region?    OP, I started out at 291.50 in November 09.  I weighed myself last week and I was 223.00  and no loose skin.  The trick is to take is slow 1-2 lbs per week and drink ton's of water.  Also I think this is very important. Every 6 weeeks or so I stop the diet and just eat at maintenace for 2 weeks. Allows your body to recover because I found a constant diet is very bad on you and I think by eating at maintence it allows your skin a breather room so to speak from constant shrinkage.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 07:22 AM    #4        mobikwa     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Polski Bro       Join Date: May 2009  Age: 31  Posts: 6,729  Rep Power: 6006                           I went from 300 to 175. Had only the tiniest bit of extra skin around my stomach. I could just tuck it into my waistband and no one would see it. You're lucky to have made this change at a young age, your skin should be fine.  There are some creams and lotions that you could try, don't know any off hand but they do exist.     Look under your chair. YOU GET A REP, AND YOU GET A REP, REPS FOR EVERYONE! If I get a rep, you get a rep, every time. Give me a link to make my life a little easier.  If you don't give me a link and you didn't post in the thread you rep'd me in, I'm not gonna go searching for you. I'll get everyone on recharge.                       10-25-2010, 07:25 AM    #5        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by Mrredundant    and don't worry about loose skin, just get the fat out first, worry about skin later.  I started at 350 in January and I am down to 225 atm, I have loose skin sure, but nowhere near as much as I thought I would have    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 07:36 AM    #6        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    you are making a bad assumption that all tall people carry their weight the same. my belly was hugenormous! I DO have loose skin, plenty of it, and Im sure I will have more loose skin before I am through....  but my point was not to focus on it, that he shouldn't WORRY about having loose skin right now, that instead he should try to focus on losing the fat.  too much fat < a little loose skin.  I wasn't trying to be a broscientist, just give him support and some perspective. when losing weight you look for any excuse to slow you down, this battle is more mental than anything (at least from my experience)  don't focus on the what ifs, just get her done I guarantee the results will be good!  that being said you can take anyone's comment with a pinch of salt,  no one knows how your body will react to losing weight, how you carry your weight or how much loose skin you will have when you hit your goals. there's only one way to find out, so rock it hard and cross that bridge when you get there.  in the meantime try and lose weight at a respectable/slow pace and get your vitamins      Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-25-2010, 07:37 AM    #7        drewsedg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: Henderson, Nevada, United States  Age: 35  Posts: 1,589  Rep Power: 434                           Just keep losing. After almost 60lbs it looks like I might end up with some loose skin around my arm pit area on the arms. There is still plenty of fat in there so it might snap back when the fat goes but so the way it is hanging makes me think there will be some sag after. If so I am just going to need to work my arms, lats, and chest to fill it in.     04/2010 - 295  Fattest 11/11/11 - 171.8                   10-25-2010, 07:41 AM    #8        subbob     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2009  Age: 33  Posts: 1,484  Rep Power: 3689                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    Actually this dude knows what he's talking about man....take a look at the progress pics he has going? I mean the basics of a calorie deficit and heavy lifting really helps out with the loose skin. The people that have the most problems with loose skin are the people that are sticking to strictly CARDIO and barely doing any LIFTING nevermind heavy lifting....oh and your crap on tall people having less skin troubles is def called BRO-SCIENCE. Also TBH, the OP is still fairly overweight at this time so why should he be worrying about loose skin? He should be worrying everyday about what goes into his body and what he is exerting out from his workouts...                    10-25-2010, 10:23 AM    #9        cyco85     View Profile     View Forum Posts     Visit Homepage      Monster to Beast       Join Date: Jun 2010  Location: United States  Age: 32  Posts: 3,710  Rep Power: 517                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    You are giving bad advice when you tell someone not to worry about loose skin. You are also 6'4" which makes a big difference. This may be bro science but I have noticed taller people generally do not have the problems with loose skin as much as shorter people. From what I have noticed taller people have their weight generally spread out over their body versus shorter people at the same weight which fat tends to be in one area.    How is that bad advice?  He's not saying the guy's not gonna have loose skin, he's saying don't worry about it.  Worrying about it is just gonna **** the guy up mentally.  What's better?  Being obese or being in shape with some loose skin?  Moreover, I defy you to show me ANYONE in single digit BF% with loose skin (provided they didn't lose an extremely ridiculous 200+ pounds of weight in less than 2-3 years).  I'm 5'9, I stored my weight fairly evenly (maxing out at 262) but the last 20 pounds or so seemed to really go to my gut.  I never had flabby arms or anything like that, I'd say my build is meso-endo.  At any rate, I'm down 80+ pounds with about 15 to go and I don't have any loose skin yet.  My lower abdomen may have a little bit but everything seems to tighten as it goes down.  The bottom line is to focus on one thing at a time.  Lose all of that fat.  Then ease into a bulk starting with a maintenance recomp.  You're gonna look a **** ton better than when you started loose skin or not.     Barely decent crew                       10-25-2010, 11:18 AM    #10        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by subbob    oh and your crap on tall people having less skin troubles is def called BRO-SCIENCE. Also TBH, the OP is still fairly overweight at this time so why should he be worrying about loose skin? He should be worrying everyday about what goes into his body and what he is exerting out from his workouts...    I went back to see what I typed and it was not was I was trying to say. What I meant was someone at 6-4, 300 lbs has less chance of having loose skin than someone at 5-8, 300 lbs.     208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 11:23 AM    #11        sweepone     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Posts: 1,724  Rep Power: 548                                 Originally Posted by cyco85    How is that bad advice?  He's not saying the guy's not gonna have loose skin, he's saying don't worry about it.  Worrying about it is just gonna **** the guy up mentally.  What's better?  Being obese or being in shape with some loose skin?  Moreover, I defy you to show me ANYONE in single digit BF% with loose skin (provided they didn't lose an extremely ridiculous 200+ pounds of weight in less than 2-3 years).    Mrredundants weight loss worked for him but losing 125 lbs in less than 9 months is very fast and some  people would get loose skin from losing this amount of weight so fast. ..especially someone that was 5-7 -5-9, not 6-4. (see my above post). Again it depends on body type, where the fat accumlated, but I'm speaking of generalizations here.   You guys are also younger. A 40+ year old who lost the amount of weight some of you lost in the periods you lost would most likely have loose skin because their stomachs were stretched out for decades.       Last edited by sweepone; 10-25-2010 at 11:34 AM .   208.50  11-1-11  203.00  8-31-12  197.00  1-18-2013                   10-25-2010, 11:42 AM    #12        Mrredundant     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Fully Invested       Join Date: Jul 2010  Age: 36  Posts: 835  Rep Power: 168                                 Originally Posted by sweepone    Mrredundants weight loss worked for him but losing 125 lbs in less than 9 months is very fast and some  people would get loose skin from losing this amount of weight so fast. ..especially someone that was 5-7 -5-9, not 6-4. (see my above post). Again it depends on body type, where the fat accumlated, but I'm speaking of generalizations here.   You guys are also younger. A 40+ year old who lost the amount of weight some of you lost in the periods you lost would most likely have loose skin because their stomachs were stretched out for decades.    I agree with your points here  however we are still talking specifically about the OP, who did not give his height, but he is 22 years old and should have no problem with skin elasticity over the course of his weight loss, he also stated he is building muscle while losing fat... that further diminishes the loose skin he will have to worry about.  he also stated he lost 20lbs in 4 months, which comes out to 5lbs of fat lost per month, at that rate he should never have to worry about loose skin.     Progress Blog: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?p=525801073#post525801073                   10-26-2010, 02:40 PM    #13        BiHStL     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Aug 2010  Age: 30  Posts: 18  Rep Power: 0                              Thank you for the advice everyone.  btw, I am right at 6 ft tall. Weight currently is constant at around 256.  I am in the gym 7 days a week, and lift pretty hard! I also do cardio, some days more then others.  I am on a pretty good diet in general I feel, and that is helping the most with the weight loss, since I used to go to the gym, but ate terribly, which was before I truly discovered what it is to try and take care of your body. I am also taking enough protein due to the lifting and even as meal replacements. I do take a multivitamin and fish oil every day also. My weight loss is about 2 lbs per week currently... so I think it is at a good pace.  Anyways, thanks for the responses so far. I know that no one will be able to tell me if I will or will not have loose skin. And trust me, I am not too worried about it, ill just fill it in with muscle . The only reason I ask is because I was wondering if there is anything I can do while losing weight to try and minimize the loose skin.                    10-26-2010, 05:17 PM    #14        drewsedg     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jul 2010  Location: Henderson, Nevada, United States  Age: 35  Posts: 1,589  Rep Power: 434                           Sounds good man. I am doing pretty much the same thing except I rely on dumb bells at home and a lot of walking(starting to run) for my exercise.  Your diet is the key. Exercising doesn't create weight loss. It can only supplement it when you get your diet right. Keep up the good work and the results will keep coming.     04/2010 - 295  Fattest 11/11/11 - 171.8                           Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Question about losing fat and loose skin  By silvialover in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 4  Last Post: 09-04-2010, 10:31 AM       Question about losing weight and flabby skin?  By andrewkm1 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 2  Last Post: 10-23-2008, 12:45 PM       Question regarding loosing weight and protein  By Rowan in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 4  Last Post: 08-04-2006, 04:34 AM       Question about losing weight and putting on a little muscle.  By BarretJC in forum Female Bodybuilding    Replies: 1  Last Post: 09-24-2004, 06:26 AM       hey i got a question about gaining weight and speed  By loweryrb27 in forum Teen Bodybuilding    Replies: 4  Last Post: 08-07-2003, 09:11 AM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                                    Store  All Access  Training  Nutrition  Community   United States   Shop by Category  Store Home  Protein  Pre-Workout  Post-Workout  Fat Burner  Creatine  Amino Acids & BCAAs  Multivitamins  Healthy Food & Snacks  Accessories  Shop All Categories   Shop By Goal  Build Muscle  Improve Workout  Workout Recovery  Weight Loss  Health & Wellness  Women's Health  View All Goals   Shop Top Brands  Bodybuilding Signature  JYM  Optimum Nutrition  EVLUTION Nutrition  MuscleTech  RSP Nutrition  Cellucor  MusclePharm  Kaged Muscle  Dymatize  View All Brands   Top Products & Specials  Top 50 Products  Top Sellers By Category  New Product Releases  Strongest Deals  Clearance Products  MY ACCOUNT     Browse All Plans  Get Started  View All Workout Plans  Build Muscle  Weight Loss  Get Fit  Gain Strength  Performance   Most Popular Plans  Shortcut to Shred with Jim Stoppani  LiveFit with Jamie Eason  Lean Body with Lee Labrada  12 Week Hardcore Daily Trainer with Kris Gethin  Living Large with Jay Cutler  Modern Physique with Steve Cook  Charlie Mike with Ashley Horner   Newest Plans  Total-Body Strong  FYR with Hannah Eden  The 7-Day Six-Pack  Bench 300  Jacked in 3  The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix  FST-7 with Hany Rambod     Get Fit  View All Training Articles  Browse All Plans  Weight Loss  Build Muscle  Workouts  Exercise Database  Transformations  Current Challenge   Muscle Groups  View All Muscle Group Articles  Chest  Shoulders  Back  Biceps  Triceps  Abs  Leg  Glutes   Calculators  Basal Metabolic Rate  One Rep Max  Macros  Protein  Calories  Body Type  View All Calculators     Eat Well  All Nutrition Articles  Diet Plans  Recipes  Meal Planning  Supplementation  Calculators  Nutrition Tips   On The Go  Healthy Foods & Meals  Multivitamins  Food Storage   Featured  What's New  Top 50 Supplements  Top 10 Protein Bars     Fitness Community  BodySpace  Forum: Supplements  Photo Gallery  Member Search  Store App   Featured  Kris Gethin: Man of Iron  Lifted: Transformation Series  Podcast  Exercise Guide  Product Reviews   Just For You  Shop Men's Protein Powders  Shop Men's Multivitamins  Shop Women's Store  Women's Articles and Videos      Suggested Searches Recent Searches Store  Articles Videos  Need Help? Customer Support 1-866-236-8417    Spend $75 and Be Entered To Win! Details      United States                              Today's Posts  FAQ    Community    BodySpace  BodyGroups  Pictures & Albums  Members List  BodyBlogs          Forum Actions    Mark Forums Read      Quick Links   View Forum Leaders  Who's Online                     Advanced           Forum  »   Main Forums  »   Losing Fat  »   Stretch marks = loose skin?              Results 1 to 12 of 12     Thread: Stretch marks = loose skin?        Thread Tools   Show Printable Version  Email this Page…   Subscribe to this Thread…      Search Thread           Advanced Search                     03-24-2010, 03:17 PM    #1        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                          Stretch marks = loose skin?    i read that stretch marks means you will definitely have loose skin if you lose weight, for example i have some stretch marks on my stomach just under my abs, and it came from no where like just started getting stretch marks no idea how, was wondering is there any way to lose weight and have my abs showing without having the loose skin.                    03-24-2010, 03:23 PM    #2        AlphaMix     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Feb 2010  Posts: 480  Rep Power: 785                                 Originally Posted by Transformer01    i read that stretch marks means you will definitely have loose skin if you lose weight, for example i have some stretch marks on my stomach just under my abs, and it came from no where like just started getting stretch marks no idea how, was wondering is there any way to lose weight and have my abs showing without having the loose skin.    Yes you can lose weight without loose skin or stretch marks, i think that loose skin are probably caused by crash diets that sacrifice large amounts of supporting muscle, or lean body mass. As long as you're lifting weights and building muscle you should be good. This is one of the biggest thing that ppl dont understand, cardio is good but if you do too much cardio and you dont eat well you will get the loose skin and stuff.     ----------------------------------♦ ɴɣϲ ϲrew ♦------------------------------------------ =============================160====================================  ----------------------------------♦I REP BACK♦-----------------------------------------                   03-24-2010, 03:58 PM    #3        Lucky4143     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Dec 2009  Location: Monterey, California, United States  Age: 25  Posts: 354  Rep Power: 149                           Yes! Loosing to much weight in a short period of time will=loose skin...or at least i higher probability of getting it.  Stretch marks aren't necessarily the same thing as loose skin..they are just the marks you get from being fat/pregnant for a prolonged period of time..they also dont go away, although there are ways of getting them down to where they are barely noticable.  Like the person above me said, take the time, lift the weights, do the cardio, eat enough, and you will not get loose skin!     18 y/o-183 lbs-6'4 March 29th- April 5th- April 12th- April 19th- April 26th-  Get Wide-Get Legs.                   03-25-2010, 10:21 AM    #4        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                           Cheers people, im glad to hear that i was thinking since i have some stretch marks its a 100% chance that im gonna have loose skin under the ab area if i loose weight, i dont mind my stretch marks because i live in uk and im pale as fu** so should be better with a tan and also ive been putting vitamin e on them.                        03-25-2010, 10:25 AM    #5        A.S.T.09     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jun 2008  Location: South Carolina, United States  Age: 28  Posts: 381  Rep Power: 126                           Hell I have stretch marks on my stomach, under my upper arms, and my shoulders.                    03-25-2010, 11:11 AM    #6        Transformer01     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Mar 2007  Location: United Kingdom (Great Britain)  Posts: 2,319  Rep Power: 946                           are there any people that had stretch marks , but then lost fat and look ripped now on this forum?                    03-25-2010, 11:41 AM    #7        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                           Stretch marks do not equal loose skin. You get stretch marks from growing quickly, even if its fairly small amount of growth. To get real loose skin (not just sub q fat) you will need to be hugely overweight to begin with AND have crappy genetics.  EDIT: You 187lbs, loose skin WILL NOT happen!     Signatures are for phaggots!                   03-25-2010, 11:50 AM    #8        LadyFacade     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2009  Location: New York, United States  Age: 34  Posts: 7  Rep Power: 0                 I'm not "ripped" but at someone who's lost a lot of weight, I can tell you that stretch marks can fade to the point where they're barely noticeable, but the likelihood of them "going away" isn't really high.  What you CAN do to aid the process of them fading is be very diligent about moisturizing your skin and drinking lots of water. The two combined help restore the elasticity to the skin (since stretch marks form because dry skin has to pull and tug without the proper elasticity.) This is all as I understand it... I won't be offended if someone can come in and explain it better.  I had stretch marks on my tummy, but those faded away and as I developed muscle in my arms, I actually developed stretch marks there, too. LOL So it works both ways. Keep your skin moisturized, and you should be good.                     03-25-2010, 11:52 AM    #9        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                           Stretch marks and bodybuilding go hand in hand. If your making good gains u will get stretch marks, consider this a positive. Get a nice tan and they are hardly noticeable.     Signatures are for phaggots!                       03-25-2010, 12:07 PM    #10        Dekomkd     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Age: 28  Posts: 60  Rep Power: 105                           I m just curious , how do u remove stretch marks ? :S  I got quite some , n summer is almost here :@  Do stomach exercises to tighten em up or Laser remove em :P ? (Ps: How much does it cost xox)  Thx !                    03-25-2010, 12:11 PM    #11        biggestdog2007     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Oct 2007  Location: Seoul, Korea  Posts: 1,853  Rep Power: 326                                 Originally Posted by Dekomkd    I m just curious , how do u remove stretch marks ? :S  I got quite some , n summer is almost here :@  Do stomach exercises to tighten em up or Laser remove em :P ? (Ps: How much does it cost xox)  Thx !    You cannot remove them. Get a good tan and they will be barely noticeable, esp if they are old ones.     Signatures are for phaggots!                   03-25-2010, 12:15 PM    #12        Dekomkd     View Profile     View Forum Posts      Registered User       Join Date: Jan 2010  Age: 28  Posts: 60  Rep Power: 105                                 Originally Posted by biggestdog2007    You cannot remove them. Get a good tan and they will be barely noticeable, esp if they are old ones.      Not even with Surgery ? :S                            Quick Navigation  Losing Fat  Top   Site Areas  Settings  Private Messages  Subscriptions  Who's Online  Search Forums  Forums Home  Forums  Main Forums   Supplements   Product Reviews - Help Out!   Supplement Logs  Sponsored Supplement Logs  Company Promotion  Supplement Misc.    Supplement Wars!    Workout Equipment  Workout Programs   Workout Journals  Olympic Lifting    Exercises   Injury Recovery And Prevention    Nutrition   Nutrition Logs  Nutrition Misc  Keto   Keto Logs  Keto Recipes      Losing Fat   Losing Fat Logs      Specifically For You   Teen Bodybuilding   Teen Misc.  Teen Workout Logs    Over Age 35   Over 35 Workout Journals  Over 35 Misc    Female Bodybuilding   Journaling  Female Misc.  Company Promotion    Powerlifting/Strongman   Powerlifting Workouts - Training Journals  Powerlifting Video Library    Personal Trainers Section    More General Categories   Post Your Pictures and Introduce Yourself  Sports Training   Sports Training Journals    Professional Bodybuilding   Men's Physique    Contest Prep and Competition Discussion   Contest Prep Journals    Motivation  Misc.   Gaming and Technology  Sports   Fantasy Sports    Education/Career/Finance  WWE Wrestling Forum  MMA Fighting  Automotive and Motorsport  Religion and Politics  Relationships and Relationship Help      Support & Feedback   Board & Feature Requests  Post Your Own Articles!  Moderator Application Form  BodySpace Profiles               «  Previous Thread | Next Thread  »        Similar Threads      Stretch marks and loose skin  By goldcaddy in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 8  Last Post: 09-23-2014, 01:30 PM       Stretchy skin... absurd amount of stretch marks... loose skin.. need help!  By jbres335 in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 12  Last Post: 11-22-2008, 07:56 AM       Do stretch marks = loose skin  By NY5000 in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 1  Last Post: 08-08-2007, 05:37 PM       Stretch marks = loose skin?  By alblocker in forum Losing Fat    Replies: 8  Last Post: 04-08-2006, 06:29 AM       Loose Skin/Stretch Marks  By dieseldave in forum Professional Bodybuilding    Replies: 1  Last Post: 10-22-2004, 03:20 PM          Bookmarks   Bookmarks    Digg     del.icio.us     StumbleUpon     Google     Facebook    Twitter        Posting Permissions     You may not post new threads  You may not post replies  You may not post attachments  You may not edit your posts     BB code is On  Smilies are On  [IMG] code is On  HTML code is Off    Forum Rules           -- BBcom 2014  -- BBcom 2014 Mobile  -- BBcom Black      Contact Us  Bodybuilding.com  Archive  Top                           Need Help? Help Center Email Support Gift Certificates Send Us Feedback Orders & Shipping Order Status Returns/Exchanges Shipping Support   United States   Connect With Us            Join Our Newsletter Be the first to receive exciting news, features, and special offers from Bodybuilding.com!          Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy About Us Site Map Advertise With Us Affiliates Help © 2018 Bodybuilding.com. All rights reserved. Bodybuilding.com℠ and BodySpace® are trademarks of Bodybuilding.com. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional prior to beginning any diet or exercise program or taking any dietary supplement. The content on our website is for informational and educational purposes only and is not intended as medical advice or to replace a relationship with a qualified healthcare professional.  © Bodybuilding.com , 5777 N. Meeker Ave.  Boise ID  83713  USA   1-866-236-8417                              Hello,         UPGRADE TO GOLD FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFITS      Profile    Track    Exercise    Progress    Community    Inbox    Settings    Log Out      Sign Up    Log In    Log In       Keep me logged in    Forgot your password?          0    Notifications    Notifications  User Preferences      You're all caught up!                                       Recipes    Fitness    Health    MyPlate    More    News    Stronger Women    Food    Diseases & Conditions    Lifestyle    Fashion & Beauty    Parenting    Relationships & Family    Weight Management    BMI Calculator                                               LIVESTRONG.COM      Weight Management      Weight Loss      Weight Loss Strategies            How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss   by JILL CORLEONE, RDN, LD  July 18, 2017       Jill Corleone, RDN, LD   Jill Corleone is a registered dietitian and health coach who has been writing and lecturing on diet and health for more than 15 years. Her work has been featured on the Huffington Post, Diabetes Self-Management and in the book "Noninvasive Mechanical Ventilation," edited by John R. Bach, M.D. Corleone holds a Bachelor of Science in nutrition.            Too much sugar may damage skin, upping your risk of sagging.  Photo Credit: EBlokhina/iStock/Getty Images          You've made the decision that you're ready to lose excess weight and have started making changes to your diet and exercise routine. But as you're losing, you may notice your skin isn't bouncing back. As an elastic organ, your skin stretches and contracts to form with the shape of your body. While there are steps you can take to minimize the sagginess of your skin while you drop those pounds -- including slow weight loss, eating the right foods and exercise -- a lot depends on your age and how much weight you have to lose.   Video of the Day             Go Slow  It's better to lose weight slowly than quickly, especially true if you're trying to prevent saggy skin. When you lose weight too quickly, you may end up losing more muscle than fat. Muscle acts as supportive tissue that helps hold the skin on your body. To help you lose more fat than muscle, keep weight loss at a rate of 1 to 2 pounds a week. One pound of fat contains about 3,500 calories, and in most cases reducing your current calorie needs by 500 to 1,000 calories a day can help you lose at this rate. For example, a 45-year-old 6-foot-tall man who weighs 250 pounds needs 3,000 calories to maintain his weight, and loses at a healthy rate by reducing intake to 2,000 to 2,500 calories a day.            Diet Right to Stop Sagging Skin  Skin elasticity plays a major role in determining how saggy your skin gets while you lose weight. Although age plays a major factor in determining how well your skin bounces back after being stretched, a healthy diet keeps the elastin and collagen -- proteins fibers that help support the structure of your skin -- strong. In general, good skin requires you follow a diet that's filled with nutrient-rich foods and that are low in fat and sugar. More specifically, you need to make sure you get enough vitamin C in your diet from foods such as red and green peppers, spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, strawberries, oranges and kiwifruit. Vitamin C is essential for the production of collagen, and it improves the appearance of your skin. Also, foods rich in linoleic acid, a type of fat found in chicken, nuts, seeds and vegetable oils, helps support better skin strength and structure. Most important, limit your intake of sugar. Too much sugar may damage skin, upping your risk of sagging. Reduce your intake of soda, baked goods and other sweet treats.  Getting Enough Water  Adequate hydration also plumps your skin to minimize sagging. The amount of water you need depends on your current health needs, exercise routine, diet and climate you live in. An adult should start with 1 quart for every 50 pounds, or 5 quarts for a 250-pound person, and adjust as needed. Your doctor can help you determine how much water you should drink each day. In addition to helping hydrate your skin, drinking water is good for weight loss. Water before meals keeps you feeling full, so you eat less. It also prevents fluid retention, so you'll get a more accurate reading when you weigh in.  Tighten Skin Up With Exercise  Regular exercise, including cardio and strength-training, may limit muscle loss while you lose weight, which may improve the look and tone of your skin. Fast walking, jogging, swimming, biking and aerobics count as cardiovascular exercise. When trying to lose weight, aim for 60 minutes, five days a week. Strength-training, which includes lifting weights, using resistance bands and yoga, builds muscle. Work out all your major muscles -- arms, back, legs, butt, shoulders -- twice a week. For best results and better skin, work your muscles to the point of failure. For example, use weights that are heavy enough that your last rep with each set is almost impossible to finish.  Considerations  If you've lost a significant amount of weight -- such as 100 pounds or more -- saggy skin may be unavoidable. If you've maintained your weight loss for more than a year and are healthy, you may want to talk to your doctor about surgery to remove the excess skin. However, as a form of cosmetic surgery, this may not be covered by insurance, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Check with your insurance company to find out. What's important is keeping the skin folds dry and clean to prevent rashes and infections. Consult with your doctor if you suspect an infection, to get the appropriate treatment.                       Lose Weight. Feel Great!  Change your life with MyPlate by LIVE STRONG .COM            GOAL     Gain 2 pounds per week  Gain 1.5 pounds per week  Gain 1 pound per week  Gain 0.5 pound per week  Maintain my current weight  Lose 0.5 pound per week  Lose 1 pound per week  Lose 1.5 pounds per week  Lose 2 pounds per week          GENDER     Female  Male          AGE          lbs.   WEIGHT         ft.  in.   HEIGHT        GET MY CALORIE GOAL         YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE           What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin on the Lower Abdomen?         How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin         How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally         How to Prevent Sagging Skin After Pregnancy         How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin         Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss         How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weight Loss         What Is the Best Thing for Firming Sagging Skin?         How to Lose Weight Before Having a Tummy Tuck Surgery         Exercises to Tighten Your Body After Weight Loss         How to Lose a Stomach That Hangs After Weight Loss When Over 60         How to Prevent Hanging Skin on the Stomach After Weight Loss         How to Prevent Wrinkles After Dieting         Home Exercises to Tighten Loose Skin         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms         Will My Skin Shrink When I Lose Weight?         Does Yoga or Running Tighten Loose Tummy Skin?         Is It Possible to Stop Facial Sagging?         How to Get Rid of Jaw Fat         How to Lose 25 Pounds in Three Months                   Advertisement      PEOPLE ARE READING     1   What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin o…     2   How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin     3   How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally     4   How to Prevent Sagging Skin After Pregnancy     5   How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin        Advertisement                 Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.         Woman     Man       Sign Up   You're signed up!      MORE  Contact & FAQ   About   Advertise   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy  PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION    Copyright © 2018 Leaf Group Ltd.
Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy .
The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be
used as a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation.
The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse
any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site.
Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the
advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.             Hello,         UPGRADE TO GOLD FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFITS      Profile    Track    Exercise    Progress    Community    Inbox    Settings    Log Out      Sign Up    Log In    Log In       Keep me logged in    Forgot your password?          0    Notifications    Notifications  User Preferences      You're all caught up!                                       Recipes    Fitness    Health    MyPlate    More    News    Stronger Women    Food    Diseases & Conditions    Lifestyle    Fashion & Beauty    Parenting    Relationships & Family    Weight Management    BMI Calculator                                               LIVESTRONG.COM      Weight Management      Weight Loss      Weight Loss Information            How to Lose Weight Without Sagging Skin   by ANDREA CESPEDES  July 18, 2017       Andrea Cespedes   Andrea Cespedes is a professionally trained chef who has focused studies in nutrition. With more than 20 years of experience in the fitness industry, she coaches cycling and running and teaches Pilates and yoga. She is an American Council on Exercise-certified personal trainer, RYT-200 and has degrees from Princeton and Columbia University.              Use sunscreen if you spend time outdoors.  Photo Credit: JK1991/iStock/Getty Images          Sagging skin can be a serious physical and cosmetic problem after significant weight loss. Seventy percent of people who undergo weight loss surgery, for example, suffer from excess sagging skin, reports a study in "Obesity Surgery" in 2013. Sagging skin can make you feel self-conscious, cause uncomfortable chafing and even be a barrier to physical activity. Whether or not sagging skin happens depends on how much weight you have to lose, your age at the time of weight loss and how quickly you've lost it. You can minimize the amount of sagging skin you develop with certain weight-loss strategies, but some loose skin is inevitable with extreme weight loss.   Video of the Day             Speed of Weight Loss Affects Skin Elasticity  Skin sagging almost inevitably occurs when you lose a large amount of weight quickly, such as with bariatric surgery or a medically prescribed, very-low-calorie diet. The compounds that help promote skin elasticity -- elastin and collagen -- become stressed in the process of extreme weight loss. The faster this stress happens, the less able elastin and collagen are to bounce back and provide skin firmness. To minimize the stress on the skin, aim for a slow, gradual rate of loss. When you lose weight at a rate of 1 to 2 pounds per week, you give elastin and collagen time to adapt. You may still have a fair amount of sag when you reach your goal weight if you lose 50 or more pounds, but it will be less severe than if you lose the weight at a faster rate. Yo-yo dieting also encourages skin sag. When you repeatedly stress the skin with quick weight loss and gain it back, your skin's elasticity wears out and eventually, can't bounce back. Don't crash diet or try a plan with unsustainable tactics, like juice fasting or banning entire food groups. Instead, adopt a weight-loss plan that teaches you how to moderate portions. Choose healthy, whole foods so you lose weight once and for the long-term.            Take Care of Your Skin  As you age, collagen and elastin naturally lose their strength. The younger you are when you lose weight, the easier it is for skin to bounce back. Genetics also play a role in how elastic your skin is. You can't change your age or genetics, but remember that losing weight greatly reduces your risk of chronic disease and early death -- regardless of what your skin looks like afterward. How you treat your skin can affect how well it tolerates weight loss without sagging. Sun damage and smoking can make your skin less elastic. Use sunscreen if you spend time outdoors, especially at the beach or pool, and make it a priority to quit a tobacco habit.  Exercise as You Lose Weight  Exercise is a critical strategy in losing weight. It burns calories and enhances your overall well being. Strength-training as you lose weight can help tighten muscles so they look firmer as you lose excess fat. This reduces the appearance of sagginess -- but tauter, tighter muscles can't make loose skin go away. Strength training will be most effective in reducing the appearance of loose skin in people who've lost a moderate amount of weight, such as 20 to 30 pounds. Go for at least two sessions per week that address all your major muscle groups: arms, legs, glutes, abs, shoulders, back and chest. Do at least one set of an exercise, for each muscle group, that consists of eight to 12 repetitions with a weight heavy enough to fatigue you by the end. When 12 repetitions is easy to complete, add more weight and possibly additional sets.  Some Sagging Skin Is Inevitable  If you start with a body-mass index greater than 30, especially 35 to 40, excess skin is inevitable after losing weight. When you're significantly overweight, obese or morbidly obese, skin stretches out to accommodate your larger body size; when you lose weight, the skin remains. The "North American Journal of Medical Sciences" published research in 2013 noting that this loose skin often negatively affects people's satisfaction after weight-loss surgery. The researchers suggested that body-contouring surgery be made a regular part of obesity management because of the impact the loose skin has on people's feelings and self-image after weight loss. If you've lost a large percentage of your body mass and loose skin is affecting your quality of life, discuss medical treatment options with your doctor.                       Lose Weight. Feel Great!  Change your life with MyPlate by LIVE STRONG .COM            GOAL     Gain 2 pounds per week  Gain 1.5 pounds per week  Gain 1 pound per week  Gain 0.5 pound per week  Maintain my current weight  Lose 0.5 pound per week  Lose 1 pound per week  Lose 1.5 pounds per week  Lose 2 pounds per week          GENDER     Female  Male          AGE          lbs.   WEIGHT         ft.  in.   HEIGHT        GET MY CALORIE GOAL         YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE           How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weight Loss         Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms         How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss         What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin on the Lower Abdomen?         Can You Get Rid of Sagging Belly Skin?         Will My Skin Shrink When I Lose Weight?         Can Facial Exercises Really Lift Sagging Jowls?         How to Lift Sagging Skin Naturally         What Is the Best Thing for Firming Sagging Skin?         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin Without Surgery         How to Lose Sagging Underarm Skin         Does Yoga or Running Tighten Loose Tummy Skin?         How to Lose Weight Before Having a Tummy Tuck Surgery         Can You Firm Sagging Skin Without Surgery?         How to Get Rid of Loose Skin After a Gastric Bypass         The Best Natural Ways to Tighten Skin on Face & Neck         Exercises for Firming a Sagging Face         How to Tighten Loose Abdominal Skin         Exercises to Tighten Your Body After Weight Loss                   Advertisement      PEOPLE ARE READING     1   How to Keep the Skin on My Face From Sagging After Weig…     2   Secrets for Toning Skin During & After Weight Loss     3   How to Get Rid of Loose Skin on Arms     4   How to Prevent Sagging Skin During Weight Loss     5   What Exercises Can Someone Do to Firm Up Sagging Skin o…        Advertisement                 Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.         Woman     Man       Sign Up   You're signed up!      MORE  Contact & FAQ   About   Advertise   Terms of Use   Privacy Policy  PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION    Copyright © 2018 Leaf Group Ltd.
Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy .
The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be
used as a substitute for professional medical advice,
diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation.
The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse
any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site.
Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the
advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.