              Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances to find a wild shiny Pokémon in XY & ORAS?           up vote  5  down vote  favorite  1      I've been seeing people getting millions of shiny Pokémon in X & Y without effort. My first shiny on Pokémon X (Corsola) also took only 93 fishing encounters.  I'm wondering: is the chance of finding a shiny in Pokémon X & Y better than it used to be?  If so, what is the chance to find a wild shiny in X & Y ? How does it compare to the previous games in the series)?    pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation     share | improve this question      edited Sep 9 '15 at 7:40       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Nov 30 '13 at 0:53       ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay   48 1 1 4              add a comment |           4 Answers 4     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      The chance of getting a shiny has indeed improved. It has doubled. This is further increased by chain fishing, getting multiple Pokemon in a row without moving or getting the "Not even a nibble" message. Poke radar works much the same to improve the odds, and the Masuda Method of breeding further increases these odds.  The Masuda Method means you take a foreign Pokemon and breed it with one from your region. For example, say you wonder trade and get a Japanese Pikachu. Breed that with a Pikachu you caught and you have a better chance of a shiny than if you breed two Pikachu that you caught.  This chance is increased further in the Friend Safari. In the Friend Safari, you are eight times more likely to find a shiny than the rest of the game. However, the shiny charm does not affect this.     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 27 '14 at 13:59             answered Nov 30 '13 at 1:08       LLF   1,000 6 16                  @BenBrocka Thank you. I don't know how I got halved there. Might be that at first I thought that it in fact hadn't changed, before I double checked. – LLF  Nov 30 '13 at 1:17            Thanks i got a japenese ditto so i can Masuda Method anything. – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 6 '13 at 21:05             Same here. Easiest way to do it, though you get eggs faster if they're the same species. – LLF  Dec 7 '13 at 21:58            Now I need to get a japenese Charmander – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 8 '13 at 16:38        3      @ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay You wouldn't want to breed a Japanese Ditto with a Japanese Charmander. Having them both from the same region would cancel out the effect of the Masuda Method. If you have a Japanese Ditto, use it with everything that IS NOT from Japan. The 2 pokemon have to be from different regions for the Masuda Method to work correctly. – C-dizzle  Dec 20 '13 at 14:47        |  show 3 more comments             up vote  5  down vote      The chances of getting a shiny are doubled in normal gameplay from 1/8192 to 1/4096. There are also many new ways to encounter shinies while retaining the old methods. The masuda method is probably the second easiest next to chain fishing. I'll discuss all the ways of catching shinies.  1:Pokeradar. The pokeradar has once again made a return to pokemon games and it is simple. you charge it by walking and you go into the patches of grass that are the same. You start a chain if you keep getting the same pokemon over and over again. you continue the chain by either capturing it or fainting it. If you run away, get a different pokemon, turn on your rollerblades, basically do anything other than encounter the previous pokemon---the chain breaks. however, if you get to 40 chains the chances rise to 1/200 and you can keep reseting the pokeradar until you get a shiny patch.  2:Horde. This is a very popular new way of getting shinies. All you do basically do is get a pokemon with sweet scent or if you have honey and keep getting hordes over and over again until you get a shiny.  3:Matsuda Method: Its basically what everyone said, you simply breed 2 pokemon from different regions and you hope for the best. O-powers and having a pokemon with flame body helps this method. This is ideal if you want to control its nature or iv's  4:Chain Fishing. This is also a new way of getting shinies and definitely the easiest. It's basically like pokeradar except that it takes a bit of skill. you have to consecutively reel in pokemon for a chain. the things that break this chain is missing a hook(like basically throwing in a rod but not getting a pokemon either b/c of mistake or simply didn't get a nibble), using wrong key item, moving, or opening any kind of menu. to address the not getting a nibble problem, I strongly suggest getting either a Inkay or Octillery with suction cups that ensures a nibble. I also reccomned not fishing from the shore and also fishing near rocks or anywhere that is closed off. This is the easiest b/c after only 40 chains, the chances go up to 1/200 and stays that way until you break the chain. Don't let this mislead you though b/c it is actually very hard to keep getting every bite. It also took me about 16 tries just to get to 40 and took me to 106 chains before I got my shiny Dragalge. I got my second one at around 167. The things that don't break the chain is running away, capturing it, and fainting it.  5:Friend Safari. The final and last way is very easy but very time consuming. all you basically do is just run around, derping until you get a shiny. This is good for competitive battling as friend safari usually gives the hidden abilities and good natures. It does have an increased shiny rate from the get-go. as soon as you go into one, the chances of getting a shiny goes up to 1/2000.  Hoped this helped you guys! ;)     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 27 '13 at 4:15       Pokemon-helper   51 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      No one really knows whether the rate has increased or not. But by looking at the amount of shinies which has entered the game, through methods such as the Masuda Method and chain ishing, it's more than likely that once again, GameFreak has improved the chance of getting a shiny pokemon from Generation 5 to 6, as they did from Generation 4 to 5 (Masuda Method).  There also seems to be a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon in friend safaris. No statistic has been confirmed yet, however.     share | improve this answer     answered Nov 30 '13 at 12:00       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36              add a comment |             up vote  -2  down vote      the chances go up when you are hatching the eggs but in the wild it is said the chances are now 2,192 for encountering a shiny pokemon. these are just rumors though but i have 2 shiny that were given to me and i have not encountered a shiny by myself. they were all given to me.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 4 '13 at 20:28       somebody   9              1      What source do you have that the shiny rate is increased in the wild? – Frank  Dec 4 '13 at 20:43        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Jan 19 '14 at 2:50   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 4 months ago      viewed     67,809 times       active    2 years, 7 months ago          Linked     -3   Pokemon shiny hunting      Related   2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Is there a specific chance of hatching a shiny in X and Y using the Masuda Method? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 5 If you catch a Pokémon does your chances of meeting it in the wild increase? 0 Are there really small secret methods of raising one's chance of encountering a shiny? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 14 Can PokéTransporter make a Pokémon shiny? 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking? 3 How exactly does Hatching Power reduce hatch time? 0 Would resetting Trainer ID help in terms of shiny chances?      Hot Network Questions     How do I keep presenting progressively more challenging encounters to my PCs without making them think that the world is gaining Levels as they are?    How old is the oldest light visible from Earth?    Paths & Wasting Time    Why should a software QA engineer need to learn JavaScript?    Should Unity lifecycle methods be annotated with the UsedImplicitly attribute?    What's the probable cause for extremely low inbound traffic and high outbound traffic?    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    Print the Previous Answer!    When to partition the hard drive?    The Folding Maze    Does backing up a database shrink the transaction log size?    Evil Campaigns:How to explain the difference between being evil and being a jerk?    Best way to use emplace_back to avoid move constructor call?    What to do about a colleague playing pranks on a manager?    How to make people spread over the earth?    How can I involve a PC's backstory in a campaign that's set exclusively in a distant or foreign location?    How does a device (dashcam) recognize if it is connected to a computer or a power source?    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    What TV show is this?    For n nodes that are connected to at most m and at least 2 other nodes, what values of n and m always allow the connections to not intersect?    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    Story about a spaceship "emergency program" that simulates a "perfect woman"    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                                   FANDOM           Games  Movies  TV    Wikis      Explore Wikis   Community Central   FANDOM University                        My Account       Sign In    Don't have an account?  Register        Start a Wiki                           Advertisement                     Pokémon Wiki    15,062  Pages      Add new page           Pokémon         Gen I       Bulbasaur    Charmander    Squirtle    Pikachu    Eevee    Mew    Mewtwo        Gen II       Chikorita    Cyndaquil    Totodile    Pichu    Ho-Oh    Lugia    Celebi        Gen III       Treecko    Torchic    Mudkip    Plusle    Minun    Groudon    Kyogre    Rayquaza        Gen IV       Turtwig    Chimchar    Piplup    Pachirisu    Dialga    Palkia    Giratina        Gen V       Snivy    Tepig    Oshawott    Emolga    Reshiram    Zekrom    Kyurem        Gen VI       Chespin    Fennekin    Froakie    Dedenne    Xerneas    Yveltal    Zygarde        Gen VII       Rowlet    Litten    Popplio    Togedemaru    Cosmog    Cosmoem    Solgaleo    Lunala              Games         Main series       Sun and Moon    Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire    X and Y    Black 2 and White 2    Black and White    HeartGold and SoulSilver        Mystery Dungeon       Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team    Explorers of Time & Explorers of Darkness    Explorers of Sky    Gates to Infinity    Super Mystery Dungeon        Ranger       Pokémon Ranger    Shadows of Almia    Guardian Signs        Other       Pokémon Rumble Blast    PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond    Pokémon Conquest        Characters       Playable Characters    Gym Leaders    Elite Four    Champions    Villains        Walkthroughs       Red and Blue    Yellow    Ruby and Sapphire    Diamond and Pearl    Platinum    HeartGold and SoulSilver              Anime         Series       The Beginning, Gold and Silver    Ruby and Sapphire    Diamond and Pearl    Black and White    XY    Sun & Moon        Episodes       Episode Guide    Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon - Ultra Adventures    Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon    Pokémon the Series: XYZ    Pokémon the Series: XY Kalos Quest        Movies       Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel    Hoopa and the Clash of Ages    Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction        Characters       Ash    Brock    Misty    Serena    Clemont    Bonnie    May    Max    Dawn    Iris        Pokémon       Ash's Pikachu    Clemont's Chespin    Serena's Braixen    Ash's Frogadier    Jessie's Pumpkaboo    James' Inkay    Meowth              Other        Main page     Manga       Pokémon Manga    Pokémon Adventures    Characters    Locations        Administrators       Energy X    Lordranged7    ThePokémonGamer    Yoponot       Project Pages     Forums       Help desk    Watercooler    Role play        Policies       Trivia    User pages    Naming conventions    Neutral point of view    Redirects              Explore       Wiki Activity    Random page    Community    Videos    Images           Discuss               in:   Pokémon    Shiny Pokémon        English      Español           Edit          History    Talk (8)         Share                Ethan encounters a Shiny Charizard .    Shiny Pokémon (ポケモンの光る Pokemon no Hikaru ) are Pokémon with different coloration than the normal versions of the Pokémon although they have no stat differences at all. Shiny Pokémon have been included since Generation II in Gold and Silver in which the first shiny Pokémon that was introduced was a Red Gyarados . Shiny Pokémon are considered very rare. The term "shiny" is a reference to their difference in color and their sparkling animation and sound effect when they enter into battle. The term was unofficial prior to Generation V , when the Pokédex began cataloging shiny Pokémon and using the term itself.  Contents [ show ]  Comparison  The color change can be anywhere from very noticeable, e.g. Charizard :    Normal Charizard Shiny Charizard  Other shiny Pokémon are very similar to their normal versions, such as Clefable .    Normal Clefable Shiny Clefable  Encountering  In Generation II, a Pokémon randomly assigned 5 integers between 0 and 15 to determine their base stats. (HP, Attack, Defense, Special, and Speed). If all 5 numbers are equal to 10, the Pokémon's color scheme will be set to 0. The chance of seeing a shiny Pokémon is 1 in every 8192, or a probability of 0.0001220703% during each encounter. From Generation III onwards, shiny Pokémon are determined by other factors such as the Trainer ID number and the personality value of the Pokémon. Despite this change, the odds of randomly encountering a shiny Pokémon is still 1 in 8192. As of Pokémon Black 2 and Pokémon White 2 , the Shiny Charm can be obtained to significantly increase chances of encountering a shiny Pokémon. This stacks with most methods listed below.  Shiny Locked  In every generation, there are some Pokémon that can't be legally Shiny, Starting for Generation V , there is a coding in the games that prevent certain Pokémon from being found in the Shiny form in the wild though legitimate ways, they are always Legendary , Mythical and other event Pokémon, they are:   Generation II  Mew    Generation III   Celebi   Jirachi    Generation IV   Celebi   Arceus  Spiky-eared Pichu    Generation V   Celebi   Victini   Reshiram   Zekrom   Kyurem   Keldeo   Meloetta     Generation VI   Celebi   Victini   Keldeo   Meloetta   Zygarde   Hoopa   Volcanion  Cosplay Pikachu    Generation VII   Victini   Keldeo   Meloetta   Zygarde   Hoopa   Volcanion   Tapu Lele   Tapu Bulu   Tapu Fini   Cosmog   Cosmoem   Solgaleo   Lunala   Magearna   Marshadow   Zeraora  Cap Pikachu   Methods  There are a few different methods to increase the chances of obtaining a shiny Pokémon.  Chaining (Gen IV)  This method uses the Pokéradar in Diamond, Pearl , Platinum , X and Y to encounter chains of the same Pokémon. Here's a few tips (Non-Gen VI):  If the bush just shakes, it is a Sinnoh  Pokémon . If the bush has a whitish shake, it might be a non-native Pokémon. Never use it in water, caves, or tall grass. The bush with the same type of shake as the first Pokémon one has battled that is the farthest away within a four by four grid is most likely the same Pokémon. The likelihood of finding a shiny Pokémon increases as the chain increases, maxing out at 40. Pulsing, sparkling grass indicates a Shiny Pokémon is in that bush.  For the Gen VI games, specifically ORAS, chaining has been made much easier thanks to the DexNav application on the PokéNav+. Using the DexNav function, players can see which Pokémon is in a patch of grass without having to risk encountering it. Likewise, scaring off a Pokémon using the DexNav (i.e. failing to sneak up on it) does not break the chain.  Masuda Method (Gen IV)  To use this method one must breed two Pokémon from games in different languages. Using this method improves the odds of hatching a shiny Pokémon from 1/8192 to 1/2048 or 1/1365.3, in Generation IV or Generation V , respectively. This method was the brainchild of Junichi Masuda , director of GameFreak.  Soft Reset (Gen. II to Gen. VII)  One method which is easy enough (but often very time consuming) works for starter Pokémon and most Legendary Pokémon . Basically, the method is to stand in front of the legendary Pokémon the player character will catch or the starter Pokémon they will take and save. If one doesn't get a shiny Pokémon when getting the starter Pokémon or battle the legendary Pokémon, soft reset the game by pressing A+B+Start+Select on the GBA, L+R+Start+Select on the DS and L+R+Start on the 3DS. This method can often require over 1000 resets before getting a shiny Pokémon.  In-Game Shiny Pokémon  In-game shiny Pokémon are met as part of the main story in some Pokémon games. For example, the Red Gyarados appears in Gold, Silver, Crystal , HeartGold and SoulSilver, as part of a story arc, and can be caught in a way similar to most legendary Pokémon. In FireRed and LeafGreen , a Trainer with a Shiny Espeon can be battled inside the Trainer Tower on one of the Sevii Islands . There is also another trainer with a shiny Meowth. In Black and White 2 , the player can catch a Shiny Haxorus in the post-story. The player can also receive a Shiny Gible in Black 2 and a Shiny Dratini in White 2. In Sun and Moon and Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon , after becoming the Champion, a man in the Seafolk Village Pokémon Center will battle the player character with his shiny Exeggcute .  Anime  Jigglypuff It was in fact a shiny version of a Jigglypuff in reference to the colors of the shiny version of this Pokémon. Noctowl : Ash caught one while on his travels through Johto . It also seems to be about half the size of other Noctowls. Shuckle : While in Johto, Ash and co. discovered a Shiny Shuckle . Gyarados : First seen in the Lake of Rage and was caught by Lance . It was also seen again during the battle between Kyogre and Groudon . Lysandre also owns one but it died with him when he was killed by Zygarde's Core Enforcer. Magneton : Owned by Pokémon Trainer  Jackson when he battles Ash in the Silver Conference. Swellow : Winona , the Fortree City Gym Leader has a Shiny Swellow . Donphan : A Shiny Donphan has been shown in the Hoenn Region on Dontoe Island. Magikarp : Was seen briefly in the episode "Judgement Day" and "Going for the Gold!". Dustox : Jessie's Dustox fell in love with a male Shiny Dustox and then was released similar to how Ash released his Butterfree . (Except Jessie smashed Dustox 's Poké Ball so it could go with its true love) Shiny Metagross : In the episode "Noodles! Roamin' Off", James in Team Rocket went out to see this strangely colored Metagross that people had been talking about, and was promptly attacked by the shiny Metagross. Another Shiny Metagross is owned by the Hoenn Elite Champion, Steven . Pichu : A Shiny Pichu appeared in the fourth ending of the Diamond and Pearl series: Get Fired Up, Spiky-eared Pichu! . Ditto : A shiny Ditto appeared in "Dealing With Fierce Double Ditto Drama" under Narissa 's ownership. Ariados : In the Special Episode "Dawn's New Journey", Dawn and Cinco encountered a swarm of Ariados as well as a shiny one using Psychic so the others could wrap Dawn and the others with String Shot. Entei , Raikou , and Suicune : the three legendary beasts were shiny guardians of the city in the Pokémon Movie: Zoroark: Master of Illusions  Hydreigon : Owned by Carlita in White, Victini, and Reshiram. It is used in the tournament In that movie. Golurk : Owned by Carlita in White: Victini and Zekrom . It was used to guard Juanita's trailer that contained Victini dolls and candy. Onix : The Pokémon was seen near the end in, "Expedition to Onix Island" after Meloetta uses her song to calm down the other attacking Onix. It seemed to have been the leader of the Onix. Red Genesect : This Shiny Legendary Pokémon is the leader of the Genesect Army in, MS016: Pokémon The Movie - Genesect and the Legend Awakened . Hawlucha : Owned by Carl in "When Light and Dark Collide!" Rayquaza : A Shiny Legendary Pokémon that can Mega Evolve in MS018: Pokémon The Movie - Hoopa and the Clash of Ages . Dragonair : Owned by Amelia . Phantump : Leader of a group of wild Phantump in XY117 . Pikachu : This Shiny Pikachu appeared at the end of XY117 during the Poké TV segment that focused on Shiny Pokémon. Gengar : Owned by Jarvis in MS019 . Gardevoir : Owned by Chymia in MS019 . Charjabug : Owned by Hayate in SM041 .  There are a few alternate-colored Pokémon that do not appear this way in the games. These are:   Pink Butterfree : First appeared in IL021.  Valencia Island Pokemon: Many Pokemon that appeared in OI003 had alternate colorings such as Raticate , Vileplume , Butterfree , Weepinbell , Paras , Nidoran ♂  and Nidoran♀ . Diamond/Crystal Onix: An Onix made entirely of crystal appeared in OI007 . Pink Pokemon: Many Pink Pokemon appeared in OI008 . Some of the included Caterpie , Weedle , Pidgey , Rattata , Vileplume , Paras , Parasect , Nidoran ♂ , Nidoran ♀ , Nidoking , Venonat , Diglett , Mankey , Primeape , Bellsprout , Dodrio , Exeggutor , Rhyhorn & Rhydon . Imaginary Pink Pokemon: In the same episode as the debut as Pink Pokemon, Team Rocket had a fantasy where there were more Pink Pokemon not officially revealed. These include Pidgeotto, Poliwhirl, Geodude, Oddish , Electabuzz , Arbok , Weezing & Scyther . Ash's Lapras's Mother: It is revealed in OI033 that Ash's Lapras has a mother and that she is a slightly lighter color than normal Lapras . Snorlax Snowmen: A few Snorlax in PK009 are just like normal Snorlax except they have more of a light-blue to their fur and normally specialize in Ice -type moves like Blizzard . Reddy: A purple-skinned Kecleon known as Reddy appeared in JE089 .  Pink Rhyhorn Pink Nidoking Reddy Pink Primeape, Caterpie, Venonat & Weedle Pink versions of both Nidoran♀ and Nidoran ♂ Add a photo to this gallery  Trivia  In Generation II games, shiny Pokémon can be slightly stronger than their normal colored counterparts. However, this is not true for later generations. There are examples of Pokémon which, although colored differently, are not officially shiny, such as gender or form differences in regular coloring such as in Hippowdon, Jellicent, and Gastrodon. However, these are not shiny variants, but each gender or form will have its own shiny color that differs from the usual color for their gender or form. The first alternately colored Pokémon to appear in the anime series was seen by Ash in the first season when he released his Butterfree so it could find a mate. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team , two Kecleon own a shop in the town square. One is a dark purple color. The Pokémon which reside in parts of the Orange Islands are colored differently to other Pokémon. The color changes are due to climate and natural adaption according to Professor Ivy . In the Anime, "In the Pink" was just that apparently, eating the berries there turned Pokémon pink. However, if the Pokémon stopped eating the berries, they would discontinue being pink. Ash's Pikachu was temporarily pink due to this. The term "Shiny Pokémon" was originally a fan name, however, it became so popular that it became the official name for differently colored Pokémon.  Gallery  ﻿ Ash's Noctowl Shiny Shuckle Lance's Gyarados Vincent's Magneton Winona's Swellow Shiny Donphan Austin's Dustox Shiny Metagross Ditto 2 Entei Raikou Suicune Shiny Onix Shiny Ariados Carlita's Hydreigon Juanita's Golurk Red Genesect Clair's Druddigon Shiny Magikarp Carl's Hawlucha Steven's Metagross Rayquaza Amelia's Dragonair Shiny Phantump Chymia's Mega Gardevoir Chymia's Mega Gardevoir Alva's Gengar Alva's Mega Gengar Lysandre's Gyarados Lysandre's Mega Gyarados Hayate's Charjabug Add a photo to this gallery    Retrieved from " http://pokemon.wikia.com/wiki/Shiny_Pok%C3%A9mon?oldid=1041637 "     Categories :    Pokémon           Languages:   Español                          Fan Feed      More Pokémon Wiki      1  Ash Ketchum      2  Evolutionary Stones      3  Starter Pokémon                    Explore Wikis       Chicago Fire Wiki         SoNyuhShiDae Wiki         Chicago PD Wiki                                   Games      Movies      TV      Explore Wikis       Follow Us                            Overview    About    Careers    Press    Contact    Wikia.org        Terms of Use    Privacy Policy    Global Sitemap    Local Sitemap      Community    Community Central    Support    Fan Contributor Program    WAM Score    Help      Can't find a community you love? Create your own and start something epic.    Start a wiki      The FANDOM App  Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat              Advertise    Media Kit    Contact        Pokémon Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. Content is available under CC-BY-SA .              TWD Negan     TWD Morgan     TWD Hilltop                                                          Menu  Skip to content  Ninten Pedia  Nintendo Forum  3DS Reviews   Nintendo 3DS Review  Nintendo 3DS XL Review  New 3DS XL Review    Best 3DS Games  Free eShop Cards  3DS / Wii U Game Reviews           How to get the Shiny Charm in Pokemon X/Y   Published on April 29th, 2014 by Gervais D.   This tutorial teaches you how to get the shiny charm in Pokemon X/Y and its uses.  What is the Shiny Charm?   The shiny charm is a key item in Pokemon X/Y that increases your chance of finding a shiny Pokemon in the wild (by 300%, so there’s a 1 in 2,730.6 chance of finding a shiny Pokemon in the wild). It was also said that if you’re using the Masuda Method for breeding, the chance of hatching a shiny Pokemonn increases from 1 in 1365.3 to 1 in 1024 .  How to get the Shiny Charm in Pokemon X/Y  It’s simple. You must catch/obtain all non-event Pokemon (the event Pokemon are listed below) from all generations (1 to 6). After, go to Lumiose City and use a taxi to travel to Professor Sycamore’s Lab. Find Professor Sycamore and talk to him to get the shiny charm.  List of event Pokemon :  Arceus Celebi Darkrai Deoxys Genesect Keldeo Manaphy Meloetta Mew Phione Shaymin Jirachi Victini  You’re also not required to have Diancie, Volcanion and Hoopa registered as caught in your PokeDex. Of course, some Pokemon are not available in the wild in Pokemon X/Y, therefore, PokeBank is required unless you go hunting in the Global Trade Station or add people to your 3DS friend list to trade over Wi-Fi.  Tip to get Pokemon for your Pokedex in seconds from the GTS :  Never, I repeat, never use the GTS’s search feature to look for the Pokemon that you need for your PokeDex. You’re going to find ridiculous offers such as a level 5 Pikachu up for trade for a level 100 Zapdos. To easily get the Pokemon that you’re looking for, breed rare Pokemon (such as Pokemon that cannot be caught in Kalos like Meowth or gen 5 starters) and put them up for trade in the GTS. Someone will trade with you in under a minute. This works well if you’re not looking for legendary Pokemon.         About Gervais D.  Gervais is a Nintendo fan who loves to play a good game. His first owned Nintendo console was the NES, and he currently owns a blue 3DS XL.       Post navigation  ← Sea Battle DSi Review  Nintendo’s Online Store Temporally Unavailable →      Make a Quick Search   Search for:     Ask a SMT4:A Question Still need help with Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse?  Ask a question and get help  Find more SMT4:A tutorials   Advertisement        Categories   3DS Accessory Reviews   3DS App Reviews   3DS Game Previews   3DS Game Reviews   3DS How To   3DS In-Game Tutorials   3DS News   3DS Tips and Tricks   Deals   eShop   Mobile   Switch In-Game Tutorials   Switch News   Wii U Game Reviews   Wii U In-game Tutorials   Wii U News              Contact Us  Privacy Policy  Contributors   NintenPedia is an information resource for Nintendo 3DS, Wii U and Switch owners. We are not affiliated with Nintendo or any of its developers. Images, trademarks, and brand names that are viewed on this site are the sole property of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018 NintenPedia.com.     This website uses cookies to improve your user experience. Accept  Read More Privacy & Cookies PolicyYahoo Search Search Skip to Navigation Skip to Market Summary Skip to Main Content Skip to Related Content Sign in Finance Watchlists My Portfolio My Screeners Markets Industries Personal Finance Technology Originals Events U.S. Markets close in 3 hrs 5 mins S&P 500 2,649.66 + 36.50 ( + 1.40% ) Dow 30 24,360.11 + 381.01 ( + 1.59% ) Nasdaq 7,053.27 + 102.93 ( + 1.48% ) Russell 2000 1,537.00 + 22.54 ( + 1.49% ) Crude Oil 65.24 + 1.82 ( + 2.87% ) Gold 1,343.50 + 3.40 ( + 0.25% ) Silver 16.59 + 0.06 ( + 0.37% ) EUR/USD 1.24 + 0.00 ( + 0.21% ) Stocks to Watch Verifone soars, Feds okay Bayer/Monsanto deal, McDonald’s plans big expansion Pokemon Sun and Moon guide: How to get a shiny starter Pokemon Jacob Siegal BGR News November 21, 2016 Reblog Share Tweet Share Back in 2000, Pokemon Gold and Pokemon Silver launched for the Game Boy Color in the United States. Along with adding 100 new Pokemon species to the Pokedex, Gold and Silver also introduced rare Shiny Pokemon to the series for the first time. Shiny Pokemon are rare color variants of standard Pokemon and have appeared in every Pokemon title since Gold and Silver . Chances of encountering one are incredibly  low, but if you’re willing to dedicate some time to it, you can receive a Shiny starter Pokemon in Sun and Moon . READ MORE: How to catch every Legendary Pokemon in Sun and Moon The process isn’t all that complicated, but the cutscene leading up to the moment where you pick a starter Pokemon in Sun or Moon lasts over two minutes. You’re going to have to continually restart until a Shiny Pokemon appears, and with the odds of encountering a Shiny starter at 1 in 4,096, you can see why this process might need to be repeated for hours or even days. Here’s a video from SmkGaming05 describing the process in detail: Everything you need to know is in the video above, but if you’d rather have text instructions to follow, we’ve included those below as well: Save your game after Tapu Koko saves you from falling off the bridge. Talk to Lillie, who is standing between two totems at the bottom of the screen. Cutscene begins. You’ll know if you got a Shiny when you can nickname your starter. If you don’t receive a Shiny Litten, Rowlet or Popplio, you’ll need to reset. In order to soft reset, hold down L + R then press either Start or Select. Every time you soft reset the game, you’ll end up back in front of Lillie, at which point you’ll need to talk to her to initiate the cutscene once again. This is a painful, arduous process, but if you just have to have a Shiny starter, it’s the only way. Here’s what all the Shiny starters look like (h/t Now Loading ): shiny-litten-pokemon More shiny-popplio-pokemon More shiny-rowlet-pokemon More If you haven’t already, be sure to read our review of Pokemon Sun and Moon . Trending right now: Best Black Friday deals on Apple gear: iPhone 7, MacBooks, iPads, Beats and more The 5 best Black Friday sales you can shop right now eBay’s PS4 Pro and Xbox One S Black Friday deals are available right now See the original version of this article on BGR.com Reblog Share Tweet Share Recently Viewed Your list is empty. What to Read Next 'The bull is limping' — Wall Street analysts have started cutting their stock market outlooks Yahoo Finance What to expect from Mark Zuckerberg’s congressional hearings Engadget China's president offers US possible trade concessions Associated Press Amazon has a $40 Apple Watch accessory you’ll wonder how you ever lived without BGR News NEWS BITES: Trump calls raid ‘witch hunt’, Syrian troops on alert, Puerto Rico to reportedly get aid Yahoo Finance Video Stocks surge after China calms trade war fears, oil and tech surge Yahoo Finance Two 'newly discovered' human organs aren't what they seem Engadget Update: Facebook rolls out $40K user data abuse bounty ahead of Zuckerberg's Congressional testimony TechCrunch Verifone soars after major announcement, Feds okay Bayer/Monsanto deal, McDonald’s plans big expansion Yahoo Finance Today’s best deals: $8 Alexa smart bulbs, 4K Fire TV, Fire TV Stick, shiatsu massager pillow, more BGR News MARKETS: Inflation is heating up—and it's not just a surge in wholesale vegetable prices Yahoo Finance Video Global debt rose to $237 trillion in 2017, highest level on record Yahoo Finance 2020 Chevrolet Silverado HD shows its big chrome face Autoblog Facebook's Zuckerberg to testify before Senate committees Yahoo Finance Get ready for a stellar earnings season Yahoo Finance Best iOS app deals of the day! 6 paid iPhone apps are free for a limited time Digital Trends MARKETS: Tech stocks, financials and even Tesla rip higher after Xi performance Yahoo Finance Video Checkout lines are about to get faster Yahoo Finance Under Trump, a voice for the American consumer goes silent Associated Press How not to run out of money in retirement Associated Press How to buy the Apple iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus Digital Trends MARKETS: Saudis want $80 crude oil, but it's going to take more than a Bloomberg article Yahoo Finance Video Congress should demand Zuckerberg move to 'one share, one vote' TechCrunch Trump Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert to Resign Bloomberg Vizio’s new P-series TV is its brightest yet Engadget Leaked render shows LG is going all-in on the notch BGR News US deficit to top $1 trillion by 2020: CBO Yahoo Finance Video Chevy will launch 3 new pickup trucks by 2020 to take on Ford (GM, F, FCAU) Business Insider Facebook traders are bracing for the worst ahead of Mark Zuckerberg's hearing Business Insider                              Toggle navigation     Thonky            Guides  Play  Utilities  News       Skip to main content       Pokémon X and Y Walkthrough    Toggle navigation             Walkthrough     Starting the Game  Vaniville Town  Aquacorde Town  Avance Trail  Santalune Forest  Ouvert Way  Santalune City  Santalune Gym  Gym Leader Viola  Route 4: Parterre Way  Lumiose City  Route 5: Versant Road  Camphrier Town  Route 7: Rivière Walk  Route 6: Palais Lane  Parfum Palace  Palais Lane East  Palais Lane West  Rivière Walk West  Connecting Cave: Zubat Roost  Route 8: Muraille Coast  Ambrette Town  Route 9: Spikes Passage  Glittering Cave  Lower Route 8: Muraille Coast Beach Area  Cyllage City  Gyllage City Gym  Gym Leader Grant  Route 10: Menhir Trail  Geosenge Town  Route 11: Miroir Way  Reflection Cave  Shalour City  Tower of Mastery  Shalour Gym  Gym Leader Korrina  Tower of Mastery, part 2  Route 12: Fourrage Road  Azure Bay  Coumarine City  Coumarine Gym  Gym Leader Ramos  Route 13: Lumiose Badlands  Kalos Power Plant  Lumiose City North  Lumiose Gym  Gym Leader Clemont  Route 14: Laverre Nature Trail  Laverre City  Laverre Gym  Gym Leader Valerie  Poké Ball Factory  Route 15: Brun Way  Lost Hotel  Route 16: Mélancolie Path  Dendemille Town  Frost Cavern  Route 17: Mamoswine Road  Anistar City  Anistar City Gym  Gym Leader Olympia  Lysandre Labs  Team Flare Secret HQ  Route 18: Vallée Étroite Way  Couriway Town  Route 19: Grande Vallée Way  Snowbelle City  Route 20: Winding Woods  Pokémon Village  Snowbelle Gym  Gym Leader Wulfric  Route 21: Dernière Way  Victory Road  Elite Four and Champion: Pokémon League  Post-Game  Kiloude City  Looker Sidequest       Guides     Mega Evolutions List and Mega Stone Locations  Lumiose City Style Guide  Battle Chateau  Poké Radar Chaining Guide  Chain Fishing  Player Search System  Super Training  Pokémon-Amie       Lists     Pokémon Locations in Pokémon X and Y  False Swipe for Generation VI Pokémon  List of Incense          Guides  Pokémon X and Y Walkthrough  Poké Radar Chaining Guide          ← Battle Chateau  Chain Fishing →     Poké Radar Chaining Guide   The Poké Radar helps you find wild pokémon and can greatly increase your chance of finding a shiny pokémon.
This page is about chaining with the Poké Radar. For fish chaining, please read the chain fishing guide .  How to Get the Poké Radar  You can get the Poké Radar after defeating the Elite Four and 
the Champion . Go to Lumiose City and go to 2F of Professor Sycamore's lab. Talk to the scientist on
the right and he will give you the Poké Radar.  How to Use the Poké Radar  To use the Poké Radar, you
first have to charge it up by walking 50 steps.
Then you have to be standing in grass or flowers where wild pokémon can appear. 
When you use the radar, some patches of grass around you will
shake. Those shaking patches have wild pokémon. 
Step into the shaking patch to encounter
a wild pokémon.  What is Chaining?  After you use the Poké Radar and defeat or capture a pokémon that you found in a shaking patch of grass or
a bubbling spot on the water, the background music will be different,
and grass around you will shake again. If you find the same 
type of pokémon in the next spot, the grass will shake again after you defeat or capture it. When you keep finding
the same pokémon each time, it's called chaining. During a chain, the background music will continue to be different
from the usual background music.       The longer you chain, the more likely you are to encounter a shiny pokémon. The shiny probability
reaches maximum after you have chained 40 times. If a shiny is in a patch of grass, the shiny patch will sparkle
and make a different sound. In addition, the background music will be different if a shiny patch is available.  Don't Break the Chain  The following things will break the chain:   Using your rollerskates or bicycle  Encountering a different type of pokémon from the one that you started the chain with  Encountering a wild pokémon that was not in a shaking patch of grass  Leaving the area  Saving and restarting from where you left off   Encountering a legendary bird does NOT break the chain.  Chaining Tips  It's easiest to chain in a large patch of grass or flowers. You might want to practice in the big flower patch of
Pokémon Village. There are also a bunch of purple flowers in Route 5.  Buy a lot of Super Repels and use them while you are chaining. (Super Repels are more cost-effective than
Max Repels.) This helps you avoid non-radar pokémon that would break your chain.  When you walk into a patch of grass, pay attention to how quickly/forcefully it was shaking. As you
continue the chain, make sure that you always step into a patch of grass that is shaking the same way as the first
one. The same type of shaking means that you are likely to encounter the same type of pokémon that you have
been chaining with.  Ignore the patches of grass that shake very slowly and gently. These do not have any pokémon in them.  If there aren't any good patches of grass, 
you can use the Poké Radar again without breaking the chain. Just walk around for fifty steps without
encountering a wild pokémon, then use the Poké Radar while standing in the grass to make different
shaking patches of grass appear.  After you have chained 40 times, you have maximized your probability of encountering a shiny, so instead
of walking into the shaking patches of grass after you have chained 40 times,
you should just use the Poké Radar over and over until a shiny patch appears. As mentioned above, a patch of
grass with a shiny in it will glow, and the background music will be different from the usual 
Poké Radar music.            ← Battle Chateau  Chain Fishing →       Get the Games        Get help with games!   Go to list of all games                                                                                          Page last updated 2015-12-16T12:45:20-06:00   © 2018  Thonky.com | Privacy Policy | About Thonky.com                    Get the Games                                  Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances to find a wild shiny Pokémon in XY & ORAS?           up vote  5  down vote  favorite  1      I've been seeing people getting millions of shiny Pokémon in X & Y without effort. My first shiny on Pokémon X (Corsola) also took only 93 fishing encounters.  I'm wondering: is the chance of finding a shiny in Pokémon X & Y better than it used to be?  If so, what is the chance to find a wild shiny in X & Y ? How does it compare to the previous games in the series)?    pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation     share | improve this question      edited Sep 9 '15 at 7:40       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Nov 30 '13 at 0:53       ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay   48 1 1 4              add a comment |           4 Answers 4     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      The chance of getting a shiny has indeed improved. It has doubled. This is further increased by chain fishing, getting multiple Pokemon in a row without moving or getting the "Not even a nibble" message. Poke radar works much the same to improve the odds, and the Masuda Method of breeding further increases these odds.  The Masuda Method means you take a foreign Pokemon and breed it with one from your region. For example, say you wonder trade and get a Japanese Pikachu. Breed that with a Pikachu you caught and you have a better chance of a shiny than if you breed two Pikachu that you caught.  This chance is increased further in the Friend Safari. In the Friend Safari, you are eight times more likely to find a shiny than the rest of the game. However, the shiny charm does not affect this.     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 27 '14 at 13:59             answered Nov 30 '13 at 1:08       LLF   1,000 6 16                  @BenBrocka Thank you. I don't know how I got halved there. Might be that at first I thought that it in fact hadn't changed, before I double checked. – LLF  Nov 30 '13 at 1:17            Thanks i got a japenese ditto so i can Masuda Method anything. – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 6 '13 at 21:05             Same here. Easiest way to do it, though you get eggs faster if they're the same species. – LLF  Dec 7 '13 at 21:58            Now I need to get a japenese Charmander – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 8 '13 at 16:38        3      @ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay You wouldn't want to breed a Japanese Ditto with a Japanese Charmander. Having them both from the same region would cancel out the effect of the Masuda Method. If you have a Japanese Ditto, use it with everything that IS NOT from Japan. The 2 pokemon have to be from different regions for the Masuda Method to work correctly. – C-dizzle  Dec 20 '13 at 14:47        |  show 3 more comments             up vote  5  down vote      The chances of getting a shiny are doubled in normal gameplay from 1/8192 to 1/4096. There are also many new ways to encounter shinies while retaining the old methods. The masuda method is probably the second easiest next to chain fishing. I'll discuss all the ways of catching shinies.  1:Pokeradar. The pokeradar has once again made a return to pokemon games and it is simple. you charge it by walking and you go into the patches of grass that are the same. You start a chain if you keep getting the same pokemon over and over again. you continue the chain by either capturing it or fainting it. If you run away, get a different pokemon, turn on your rollerblades, basically do anything other than encounter the previous pokemon---the chain breaks. however, if you get to 40 chains the chances rise to 1/200 and you can keep reseting the pokeradar until you get a shiny patch.  2:Horde. This is a very popular new way of getting shinies. All you do basically do is get a pokemon with sweet scent or if you have honey and keep getting hordes over and over again until you get a shiny.  3:Matsuda Method: Its basically what everyone said, you simply breed 2 pokemon from different regions and you hope for the best. O-powers and having a pokemon with flame body helps this method. This is ideal if you want to control its nature or iv's  4:Chain Fishing. This is also a new way of getting shinies and definitely the easiest. It's basically like pokeradar except that it takes a bit of skill. you have to consecutively reel in pokemon for a chain. the things that break this chain is missing a hook(like basically throwing in a rod but not getting a pokemon either b/c of mistake or simply didn't get a nibble), using wrong key item, moving, or opening any kind of menu. to address the not getting a nibble problem, I strongly suggest getting either a Inkay or Octillery with suction cups that ensures a nibble. I also reccomned not fishing from the shore and also fishing near rocks or anywhere that is closed off. This is the easiest b/c after only 40 chains, the chances go up to 1/200 and stays that way until you break the chain. Don't let this mislead you though b/c it is actually very hard to keep getting every bite. It also took me about 16 tries just to get to 40 and took me to 106 chains before I got my shiny Dragalge. I got my second one at around 167. The things that don't break the chain is running away, capturing it, and fainting it.  5:Friend Safari. The final and last way is very easy but very time consuming. all you basically do is just run around, derping until you get a shiny. This is good for competitive battling as friend safari usually gives the hidden abilities and good natures. It does have an increased shiny rate from the get-go. as soon as you go into one, the chances of getting a shiny goes up to 1/2000.  Hoped this helped you guys! ;)     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 27 '13 at 4:15       Pokemon-helper   51 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      No one really knows whether the rate has increased or not. But by looking at the amount of shinies which has entered the game, through methods such as the Masuda Method and chain ishing, it's more than likely that once again, GameFreak has improved the chance of getting a shiny pokemon from Generation 5 to 6, as they did from Generation 4 to 5 (Masuda Method).  There also seems to be a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon in friend safaris. No statistic has been confirmed yet, however.     share | improve this answer     answered Nov 30 '13 at 12:00       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36              add a comment |             up vote  -2  down vote      the chances go up when you are hatching the eggs but in the wild it is said the chances are now 2,192 for encountering a shiny pokemon. these are just rumors though but i have 2 shiny that were given to me and i have not encountered a shiny by myself. they were all given to me.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 4 '13 at 20:28       somebody   9              1      What source do you have that the shiny rate is increased in the wild? – Frank  Dec 4 '13 at 20:43        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Jan 19 '14 at 2:50   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 4 months ago      viewed     67,809 times       active    2 years, 7 months ago          Linked     -3   Pokemon shiny hunting      Related   2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Is there a specific chance of hatching a shiny in X and Y using the Masuda Method? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 5 If you catch a Pokémon does your chances of meeting it in the wild increase? 0 Are there really small secret methods of raising one's chance of encountering a shiny? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 14 Can PokéTransporter make a Pokémon shiny? 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking? 3 How exactly does Hatching Power reduce hatch time? 0 Would resetting Trainer ID help in terms of shiny chances?      Hot Network Questions     Story about a spaceship "emergency program" that simulates a "perfect woman"    How to take top 10 built-in function    Is MULTICURVE geometry in WKT valid according to the standard and open source community?    How to make a Tree diagram using images as vertices, that goes left to right    How is the voltage supply and peak-to-peak voltage of a rectifier found in this example?    Why do they say I am committing a fallacy when I am just insulting someone?    Git clone only works with ssh://git@.. and not with git@    Should I prepare new homework exercises each year?    Sort spelled-out serial numbers    Why use baking powder instead of yeast?    Two lasers between two mirrors    Finding probability -picking at least one red, one blue and one green ball from an urn when six balls are selected    New "professional" branding perceived as "dull"    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    Paths & Wasting Time    How can we teach good naming practice for students learning Java?    How can I give out my telephone number without implying anything?    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    How old is the oldest light visible from Earth?    When to partition the hard drive?    I want to leave Islam, but they would execute and kill me. What do I do?    How to make people spread over the earth?    Up go the bits!    Taxonomy of genetically engineered species    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances of encountering a shiny Pokémon?           up vote  3  down vote  favorite       For Sun & Moon, are the chances to catch a shiny Pokémon the same of previous generations, like X & Y? Or are the chances somewhat higher or lower this time around?    pokemon-sun-moon     share | improve this question      edited Apr 27 '17 at 11:46       Ealhad   5,105 1 17 37        asked Nov 19 '16 at 21:30       senpai   39.3k 121 348 548              1      The chances in X and Y were higher than in previous generations. – DanmakuGrazer  Nov 19 '16 at 21:46            @DanmakuGrazer Oh were they?  Now I'm wondering if they made the rates even higher for this generation. – senpai  Nov 19 '16 at 21:49        add a comment |           2 Answers 2     active  oldest  votes            up vote  1  down vote  accepted      Breeding with the Masuda Method, your chances of getting a shiny are 1 in 683. If you have the shiny charm and use the Masuda Method, your chances are 1 in 512. Thus, using the Masuda Method is the best.  With SOS chaining, if you get a chain of 70 and above, you have a 1 in 1024 chance, and with the shiny charm it becomes 1 in 683. Therefore, the Masuda Method still gives you a better chance, but the SOS chaining method may be faster if you turn off battle actions in your game options.     share | improve this answer      edited Jun 16 '17 at 16:22       Question Marks   1,299 2 9 28        answered Dec 14 '16 at 21:46       Comfy Neko9   42 1                  You should explain the Adrenaline Orb method, as it's written now is unclear and misleading. Also, any source of your numbers? – pinckerman  Jan 13 '17 at 20:42             The Adrenaline Orb paragraph seems to be referring to the chance of getting a shiny while SOS chaining. Using an Adrenaline Orb does not increase the chance of finding a shiny at all, but it makes SOS chaining easier, and after getting up to a chain of 70+, the chances of encountering a shiny in the chain effectively become 1 in 1024. – Question Marks  Jun 16 '17 at 15:55        2      As someone who isn't overly familiar with shiny Pokémon or methods to catch them, this answer is a really bad resource.  The question was about encountering shines, and you talk about breeding through the "medusa method" without explaining what it is or providing a resource.  You then mention SOS chaining, which again, no way to tell what that is from your answer.  I own the game and this answer has me no closer to knowing the odds of a shiny encounter because it's not clear what these methods are. – JMac  Jun 16 '17 at 16:45        add a comment |              up vote  6  down vote      Reportedly, they are the same as they were in gen6: 1 in 4096  The Masuda Method (breeding two Pokémon from different languages) still works to increase your chances of breeding a shiny. The way(s) of increasing the chances of wild shiny Pokémon have been replaced with Ally Chaining , which involves using an Adrenaline Orb to force the wild Pokémon to call an ally for help, KO one of the two, and let the remaining one call for help, until you encounter a shiny.     share | improve this answer      edited Apr 27 '17 at 11:46       Ealhad   5,105 1 17 37        answered Nov 19 '16 at 21:58       Trent Hawkins   15.2k 11 57 85              2      This is somewhat confirmed by an NPC in the first town on Akala Island, who will say (paraphrasing) "Your chances of finding a shiny Pokemon are about 1 in 4000". Not sure if this changes when you get the shiny charm. – SGR  Dec 2 '16 at 12:55        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Aug 29 '17 at 5:53   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-sun-moon or ask your own question .         asked    1 year, 4 months ago      viewed     28,312 times       active    7 months ago          Related   2 What are the differences between Pokémon Sun & Pokémon Moon? 5 Which Pokémon games can I use to trade Pokémon with the Sun and Moon versions? -1 STAB in Pokémon Sun & Moon 6 When are the statistics (IVs/Ability/Gender etc.) for a hatched Pokémon randomised? 10 Which Pokémon can't be shiny in Sun/Moon? 5 Is there an item that increases the rate at which you find shiny Pokémon? 4 How to disable game synchronisation? 7 How does Synchronize interact with SOS Battles? 2 Are Shiny and Dawn Stone present in PokéPelago? 1 How do I perform 'shiny swapping'?      Hot Network Questions     Is the quotient of a toric variety by a finite group still toric    Using tikz Calc package to add cordinates    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    dividing words in equation    When is `_` an environment variable of a bash shell?    When to partition the hard drive?    How exactly does being frozen solid by a cone of cold work?    Best way to use emplace_back to avoid move constructor call?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    Evil Campaigns:How to explain the difference between being evil and being a jerk?    French A roads, Spanish E- roads, Dutch E roads and German roads    What TV show is this?    How to take top 10 built-in function    What is lost when we move from reals to complex numbers?    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    How to build a trap to last the ages?    Comma Code - Automate the Boring Stuff    For n nodes that are connected to at most m and at least 2 other nodes, what values of n and m always allow the connections to not intersect?    Advantage of luminescent eggs?    Taxonomy of genetically engineered species    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    Is % of escaped defects a good KPI for a tester performance?    The supply and demand of Virtual Products    How can we teach good naming practice for students learning Java?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         Is it possible to get a shiny Honedge without breeding?           up vote  0  down vote  favorite       I have already looked at many articles on the subject but all of them just say it's possible to find on route 6, or you can breed 'till the cows come home trying to get a shiny. I'm not real big on breeding and was wondering, is there a way to get a shiny honedge that does not involve breeding or the pokemon radar (because it does not work on rout 6 due to the tall grass)?    pokemon-x-y     share | improve this question     asked Mar 23 '14 at 4:57       Cyberson   839 2 10 26              2      You can get a shiny of everything: Starters, gifts, fossils, even Legendaries (only exceptions are trades and event Pokémon). The problem with shiny Pokémon is that they're extremely rare. Breeding and Pokémon Radar are only supposed to increase your chances at getting a shiny Pokémon. – Nolonar  Mar 23 '14 at 5:15         2      @Nolonar I think since Gen5 or so some in-game legendaries have been flagged so that they can't be shiny outside of event distribution. – Trent Hawkins  Mar 23 '14 at 5:36        1      Note that breeding doesn't actually increase the chances for a shiny, but ensures the shiny will have the Nature and attacks (and to some degree stats) you want it to have once it appears. Using the Masuda method does increase the chances while breeding, but the breeding itself doesn't. – scenia  Mar 24 '14 at 9:24         add a comment |           3 Answers 3     active  oldest  votes            up vote  7  down vote  accepted      Yes, any wild pokémon (with the exception of some legendaries) you encounter can be shiny.  However, keep in mind that without any tricks available to increase the shiny rate (Radar, horde battles, etc), your chances are low. Even with the item for 'finishing' the national dex, you are still looking at 1 in 2,000 or so. Also, Honedge aren't the only pokémon in the grass; even if we assume the chance of a Honedge is equal to the other five (It isn't; Bulbapedia lists it as 'rare' ), that would take your chances to 1 in 24,000 (assuming a base rate of 1 in 4,000 or so).  Compare this with breeding: You can put an ordinary Honedge in the daycare with another opposite gendered Honedge, 1 in 4,000 (Again, roughly, assuming this is the base rate) chance of each egg being shiny. Take out one of those Honedge and stick in a Ditto (or any pokémon from the Mineral egg group ) that was caught in a different region, like Japan, and your chance doubles to 1 in 2,000.  Breeding repeatedly might get a little dull, but if you have to breed " 'till the cows come home " to get a shiny, you'll be wading through the grass until the cows came home 6-12 times by comparison.     share | improve this answer      edited Mar 23 '14 at 5:41             answered Mar 23 '14 at 5:33       Trent Hawkins   15.2k 11 57 85              add a comment |              up vote  1  down vote      Im kind of late to this sorry, but the fastest method I found was to use a pokemon with Magnet pull on Route 6. Magnet Pull increases the chance of encountering a steel pokemon to 150% of the usual chance. And as Honedge is the only steel type there, you will encounter more of them.
Other pokemon will still show up, but honedge will be the most common, so the chances of it being the shiny you encounter are a bit higher.     share | improve this answer     answered Apr 6 '14 at 13:51       Beech   11 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      Also, if you have some good pokemon with you, I would look on the GTS. There may be some unreasonable offers but if you are persistent, you may be able to get one.     share | improve this answer     answered Oct 18 '14 at 12:32       user90282   11 1              add a comment |            Your Answer            draft saved  draft discarded             Sign up or log in    Sign up using Google   Sign up using Facebook   Sign up using Email and Password        Post as a guest       Name     Email             Post as a guest       Name     Email            discard  By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service .     Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y or ask your own question .         asked    4 years ago      viewed     8,612 times       active    3 years, 5 months ago          Related   11 Can my starter Pokemon be shiny? 2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 2 Can you get a shiny and/or female Torchic from Mystery Gift? -3 Pokemon shiny hunting 0 How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x 4 Is it possible to soft reset to a shiny Yveltal/Xerneas/Zygarde? 1 How to copy a Pokemon in breeding? 0 Is Shiny Xerneas possible with game restarts? 0 Is it possible to Soft Reset for a shiny Snorlax on Route 7?      Hot Network Questions     Is this a field?    How to build a trap to last the ages?    Is there a way to avoid the recurring cost of microbes, when composting at home?    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    Sort spelled-out serial numbers    Up go the bits!    How does a device (dashcam) recognize if it is connected to a computer or a power source?    How is the voltage supply and peak-to-peak voltage of a rectifier found in this example?    I want to leave Islam, but they would execute and kill me. What do I do?    Having trouble getting my friends to get invested in the game    Print the Previous Answer!    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    What type of aircraft is depicted in the Taylor Swift music video "Look What You Made Me Do"?    Comma Code - Automate the Boring Stuff    Using tikz Calc package to add cordinates    Should Unity lifecycle methods be annotated with the UsedImplicitly attribute?    Why is the US Congress getting involved in the privacy issues at Facebook?    Advantage of luminescent eggs?    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    How do I talk about my abusive former advisor if people ask?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    Stat block from Animate Dead    The meaning of "squishy hand-wringer"    The supply and demand of Virtual Products    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x [duplicate]           up vote  0  down vote  favorite  1       This question already has an answer here:    How can you increase the shiny rate?  5 answers     How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x.  Your answers will be really appreciated because i'm desperate for a shiny Charmander in my game Pokemon x.  Thanks.    pokemon-x-y     share | improve this question     asked Feb 2 '14 at 9:46       shiny hunter   4 1 1 2           marked as duplicate by Private Pansy , TZHX , galacticninja , Jeffrey Lin , kalina  Feb 2 '14 at 13:38   This question has been asked before and already has an answer. If those answers do not fully address your question, please ask a new question .              The question is poorly worded and it sounds like you would just like to obtain a shiny charmander which is way easier then breeding one. – rom016  Dec 6 '15 at 0:18        add a comment |           1 Answer 1     active  oldest  votes            up vote  2  down vote      You would be using the Masuda method . You will need at least one Pokemon from the Charmander evolution line, and one Pokemon to breed with it. The two should come from games from different countries *.  Example pairings:   Male Charmeleon from USA + Female Charmeleon from France  Female Charizard from UK + Ditto from Japan  Female Charmander from Germany + Male Dragonite from UK   It is to be noted that you will be getting eggs more frequently when breeding two similar species Pokemon (i.e. Charmeleon + Charmeleon but not Charizard + Dragonite), so you might opt for something more like the first example.  This doesn't mean that you will get a shiny quickly; shinies are still rare, but they are easier to come by.  Other things that will help:   Oval Charm - Increases chances of getting eggs and obtained from Prof. Sycamore for completing seeing all Pokemon in the KalosDex (except Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres, Diancie, Hoopa and Volcanion),  Shiny Charm - Increases chances of getting shiny Pokemon and obtained from Prof. Sycamore for completing NationalDex.   With the Masuda method, you have 1 in 1,365.3 to get a shiny. If you have a Shiny Charm too, you bring this down to 1 in 1,024 (these figures are from Gen V data, but they are assumed to be the same here, until the figures are confirmed).   And besides this, if your actual aim is a shiny Charizard, it is believed that the Friend Safari has the shiny rate encounter increased. So you might also try to get shiny Charmeleon from a Fire-type Friend Safari with a Charmeleon and the Shiny Charm. I don't know the shiny rate encounter however.   * If it's from the same country but different language, the odds remain unchanged at 1 in 8,192. This is only my speculation based on the fact that in-game traded Pokemon with different languages does not increase the chance of getting shinies through breeding. It's not difficult to get a foreign Pokemon anyway, with GTS.     share | improve this answer      edited Apr 7 '16 at 9:28             answered Feb 2 '14 at 10:04       Jerry   4,964 12 28              1      To the anonymous user that edited this post to include their own strategy guide YouTube video; I have rejected the edit, as a separate guide should be posted as your own answer, and a video is not significant enough, by itself. If you wish to include the video, make sure you include enough information pertaining to the strategy guide, so that the important information is supplemented with text. We do not qualify videos as answers, in the same way that we do not qualify link-only answers. – user106385  Apr 6 '16 at 0:21        add a comment |       Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 2 months ago      viewed     61,962 times       active    2 years ago          Linked     10   How can you increase the shiny rate?      Related   5 How can I tell in battle if a Pokemon is shiny? 2 Is there any way to know how many pokemon you have? 2 How do you stop boosted exp for traded pokemon? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 2 How many pokemon are obtainable in XY 0 Is it possible to get a shiny Honedge without breeding? 1 Masuda Method Help 1 Does running away from pokemon while chaining stop the chain? -1 possible different ways to get the kanto starters and ways to get fossils in x and y 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking?      Hot Network Questions     Up go the bits!    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    Is MULTICURVE geometry in WKT valid according to the standard and open source community?    dividing words in equation    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    How to build a trap to last the ages?    Stat block from Animate Dead    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    How to make people spread over the earth?    Is it safe/wise to store a salt in the same field as the hashed password?    Objects' coordinates and scale adjustment according to different devices resolution and aspect ration in Unity    When to partition the hard drive?    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    Why is this shared-neutral wiring bad?    Having trouble getting my friends to get invested in the game    How can I avoid the awkwardness of a returning player who wears a low-cut shirt?    The Folding Maze    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    Why isn't the bracha "Al Achillat Matzah" said before eating the Afikoman?    Full Back up over to Network failed due to unknown network error 59    Taxonomy of genetically engineered species    Can I hire my kid and start a Roth IRA for him?    Two lasers between two mirrors    I have two siblings; we're locked in a war    more hot questions             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         How can you increase the shiny rate?           up vote  10  down vote  favorite  1      I remember seeing somewhere that if you breed a Pokemon from a different region its offspring would have a higher chance of being shiny. Is this true?  What other methods can be used to increase the odds of obtaining shiny Pokemon?  Also, What is the chance of breeding a shiny if one/both of the parent Pokemon are also shiny?    pokemon-series     share | improve this question      edited Oct 22 '13 at 11:03       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Oct 21 '13 at 9:37       Qwertie   1,272 5 14 39                  I would use the Consecutive fishing method because you put more effort into geting a shiny pokemon So far the shinies I've gotten from this method is: - 12 Claunchers - 1 Horsea – N7spaceranger  Jan 14 '14 at 5:13         add a comment |           5 Answers 5     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      From serebii.net , if you breed a pokemon from another region different to your game with another pokemon, you will have a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon. Colloquially called the Masuda Method after the developer Junichi Masuda, this can increase your chance of breeding a shiny from 1 in 8,192 to 1 in 2,048 (Generation 4) or 1,365.3 (Generation 5). Generation 6 figures are unknown at the moment, but to be honest I've heard a lot of people getting shinies so it could have been lowered even more.  As noted by Nolonar it is required that both parents must come from a game with different language. For instance, if your game is in English and both parents are Japanese, the Masuda method will not work.   Without any method, the chance of encountering, obtaining, or breeding a shiny pokemon is 1 in 8,192.   Although this doesn't specifically increase your shiny rate, there's an item called a PokeRadar which can use a method called chaining to find shiny pokemon in the wild. A good guide I found is here     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 22 '13 at 13:55       Arperum   6,869 9 49 81        answered Oct 21 '13 at 9:53       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36                  do you have know anything about the last part of my question? – Qwertie  Oct 21 '13 at 9:57        3      @qwertyk31 Breeding shinies together does not increase your chance of getting a shiny kid. About the Masuda method, both parents must come from a game with different language. For instance, if your game is in English and both parents are Japanese, the Masuda method will not work. – Nolonar  Oct 21 '13 at 10:04            @qwertyk31 Oops, guess I missed that bit. But yea, Nolonar answered it – TerryA  Oct 21 '13 at 10:31            Found an illustrated guide of the PokeRadar method on Kotaku . – 5pike  Oct 24 '13 at 8:09            Outside of breding, there's also that rumor/theory circulating that tipping waiters and such in X and Y increases the shiny encounter rate, but it's probably best to take that with a grain of salt. – Jocelyn  Dec 19 '13 at 1:11        |  show 1 more comment             up vote  4  down vote      In addition to the other region pokemon, Poke Radar, and "just breed piles of stuff" methods, there is a new Consecutive Fishing method which appears to significantly increase Shiny occurances but exists only in Generation 6/ Pokemon XY.   It turns out that if you manage to get a chain of consecuctive fishing hooks, it will gradually increase the likelihood of finding a Shiny Pokémon, with the exact figures still to come. The higher the amount of Pokémon hooked, the more likely you get a shiny Pokémon, but as with PokéRadar, this is not a guarantee.  There are a few things that will break this consecutive streak, however. If you move from the spot, the streak is broken. If you pull in the rod too early, the streak is broken. If you don't get a nibble, the streak is broken. With the latter being a possibility, it's logical to have a Pokémon with the ability Suction Cups as your lead in order to increase the likelihood of hooking a Pokémon.   Some more info on fishing streaks is here :   What we know for sure breaks a streak: -Getting the "Nothing seems to be biting..." message (Random, but the odds are manipulable) -Getting the "No! You reeled it in too fast!" message (Pressed A too soon) -Getting the "No! You reeled it in too slow!" message (Pressed A too late) -Exiting the area in which you're fishing -Getting into a battle that isn't through fishing -Exiting the game   The shiny rate seems to increase significantly by this method and reports seem to indicate around 150-200 consecutive catches may grant a shiny. The problem of course is you can only catch shinies that can be fished up in that area, and it's mostly luck as to which pokemon you get (unless you want a shiny lucdisc or Magikarp, in which case use the Old Rod).  200 catches may seem high, but it's miles ahead of the one in 8000+ chance normally and still significantly better than the 1 in 1,365.3 chance the gen 5 foreign Ditto chance had (it is unknown if the foreign ditto method has improved in gen 6 yet).     share | improve this answer     answered Oct 22 '13 at 13:12       Ben Brocka   36k 77 212 358                  I just managed to catch a shiny with the fishing technique, it was right around 20 successful catches in a row a shiny showed up! – C-dizzle  Oct 22 '13 at 17:22        add a comment |             up vote  2  down vote      In generation II, having a shiny parent did raise the chances of hatching a shiny pokemon.  However, after gen II, the chances of a shiny are NOT increased if either of the parents of shiny. So if you're playing anything other than Gold, Crystal, or Silver, having a shiny parent won't increase the shiny rate.     share | improve this answer     answered Jan 4 '14 at 5:30       Wishy   21 1                  For the record, since the shiny status was dependant on stats, this is technically also true for Gen I, although shinyness had no meaning there. If you trade something over to Gen II, it will become visible. This is the cause of the shiny Ditto glitch in gen II. – scenia  Feb 8 '14 at 19:09        add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      With the Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon episodes, a new way of catching shiny Pokemon has also be found (only presents in these two versions): the Ultra Wormholes. This method makes it way easier to find shiny Pokemon, as a lot of people stated to have found a shiny from a few minutes until a few hours thanks to this method. There is apparently a 1% of chance of getting a shiny Pokemon this way, which is considerably high compared to the other methods.  You first need to beat the game. Then, when getting back to the Altar of the Moone , a warp hole should be opened here. When you get in it, you will start a mini-game consisting into navigating as far as possible through the Wormhole. For that, you have to catch as many golden globes as possible to gain speed, while dodging blue spheres and colored wormholes. If you go far enough (~3.000 light years from start), you should be able to see white wormholes with rainbow edges appearing. Getting in one of these will considerably increase the luck for the Pokemon inside of it to be shiny. The further you will go, the higher will be the chances for that Pokemon to be shiny.  A really important note is that the fact that the Pokemon is shiny or not is defined when getting out of the wormhole. It means that, if you save right before the Pokemon encounter and that this Pokemon is indeed shiny, you will be able to reset the game to try to get the desired Nature and IV while keeping the shininess. Do note that this doesn't apply to Legendaries and Ultra Beasts, for which you will have to use the regular soft reset method.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 18 '17 at 13:02       Isuka   10.7k 7 46 88              add a comment |             up vote  -3  down vote      By using this method, every 15 mins I get at least 1.  You'll need any rod (I recommend the great rod)  Have a pokemon with suction cups (Inkay, etc.)  Find an enclosed area and start fishing.  After 20 pokemon then you're getting into the shiny zone, and when you run into a shiny your chain will break.     share | improve this answer      edited Jan 15 '14 at 2:35       David M   4,567 5 29 67        answered Jan 14 '14 at 5:22       N7spaceranger   1 1              1      If you have new information to add, please edit it into your previous answer rather than adding yet another answer. – Trent Hawkins  Jan 14 '14 at 5:40            Alternatively, you could make this a complete post and delete your previous one.  Dealer's choice. – David M  Jan 15 '14 at 2:36        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Aug 3 '15 at 12:22   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-series or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 5 months ago      viewed     61,648 times       active    3 months ago          Linked     0   How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x      Related   5 Can Different Shiny Pokemon of the Same Species be Different Colours? 23 Does a shiny pokemon stay shiny after evolution? 2 Does the shiny encounter rate ever reset? 1 How many unique Pokémon formes are there? 7 What factors influence pokemon breeding time? 3 Can you have a Pokemon from every generation in the latest one? 13 Can a shiny Ditto turn into shiny versions of other Pokemon? 0 I got a pokemon through trade but its in another language 9 What is the purpose of Pokemon moves, Celebrate and Hold Hands? 1 I may have a possible hacked Pokémon I got from trade, what should I do?      Hot Network Questions     Is it safe/wise to store a salt in the same field as the hashed password?    What TV show is this?    Sort spelled-out serial numbers    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    Story about a spaceship "emergency program" that simulates a "perfect woman"    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    Is MULTICURVE geometry in WKT valid according to the standard and open source community?    Was the Twin Pines Mall scene at 1:15am for in-universe or out-of-universe reasons?    Can I hire my kid and start a Roth IRA for him?    What to do about a colleague playing pranks on a manager?    Should I prepare new homework exercises each year?    “GOD is real, unless declared integer.”    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    The Folding Maze    Stat block from Animate Dead    Is % of escaped defects a good KPI for a tester performance?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    How does the title 'The Imitation Game' justify the story of the movie?    Paths & Wasting Time    What am I talking about here?    How exactly does being frozen solid by a cone of cold work?    The meaning of "squishy hand-wringer"    How can hashes be unique if they are limited in number?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                     Browse     Xbox One  Xbox 360  PS4  PS3  Vita  Nintendo  PC  Mobile    Movies  TV  Tech  Comics    Reviews  Upcoming  Videos  Wikis + Cheats  Podcasts  Boards  Trailers    IGN on YouTube  IGN on Facebook  IGN on Twitter  MORE    Browse          Shows           Monday through Friday    Daily Fix   GTA 5 Might Be Bigger Than Star Wars   play latest       Daily Fix  Prepare To Try  HotKeys  Up At Noon  Game Scoop!  Beyond!  Nintendo Voice Chat  Unlocked  more shows    Fireteam Chat  IGN Every Ever  Linked Together  IGN Spotlight  IGN Unfiltered  IGN Access  IGN Plays              Best Game Ever   Mass Effect, Final Fantasy, Dark Souls? Celebs' Favorite RPGs  Ep. 5   play latest            Every Friday    Nintendo Voice Chat   Decay of Logos - Zelda Meets Dark Souls on Nintendo Switch - NVC Podcast Teaser   play latest               Behind the Cosplay   Revealing Star Wars' Iden Versio to the World   play latest        Reviews  PS4  Xbox  PC  Nintendo  Movies  TV  Tech  Esports           Best Deal:  %displayPrice% @ %seller%        Search this wiki   Expand Navigation     Pokemon X Wiki Guide     Pokedex     Pokemon X and Y Version Differences     Starter Guide     Walkthrough     Cheats and Secrets     How To Guides     Rare Pokemon      Starter Pokemon     Version Exclusive Pokemon     Mega-Evolved Pokemon     Legendary Pokemon     Event Pokemon     Fossil Pokemon     Gift Pokemon     In-Game Trades     Shiny Pokemon      Pokedex     Move Dex     Items     Player Search System     Pokemon-Amie     Super Training     Universe     Limited Edition 3DS XLs     Questions and Answers     Bugs and Glitches     Wiki Tools      Top Wiki Contributors      Hardcore Hector  Edits: 7,846       ARowlingStone  Edits: 4,677       CCNintendo  Edits: 2,600       Super-Zambezi  Edits: 2,248     See All Top Contributors »   Wiki Help    Need assistance with editing this wiki?  Beginner's Guide to Wikis  Wiki Support Team    What Links Here    Pokerus | Rare Pokemon | Event Pokemon | Effort Values | Post Game Champion Quests | How to Breed Competitive Pokemon from Scratch           Pokemon X    |    3DS               Game Highlights     Wiki Guide     Review     Videos     Images     Walkthroughs     All Articles     Message Boards       Shiny Pokemon       Edit Page  Last Edit:  August 7, 2016 - 1 year 8 months ago      Shiny Pokemon are extremely rare, alternate colored Pokemon. They were first introduced in Pokemon Gold and Pokemon Silver. Every time one of these Pokemon appears, shiny sparkles flash around them, hence the name. These Pokemon are so rare that some trainers haven't seen one till this day! The exact odds of finding a shiny Pokemon is 1 in 8192. As of Generation VI the odds of finding a shiny are 1 in 4096. They can be found in the wild or through breeding. Other than the alternate color and sparkles, there is nothing special about them. Some Pokemon trainers will be willing to trade some more valuable Pokemon for lesser shiny Pokemon simply based on their rarity.  Vote on the poll!  Edit Masuda Method  If you have two Pokemon from two different language versions in one game, you can breed them and raise the odds of finding a shiny Pokemon to 1 in 1366. Another tip for the Masuda Method is to garner up around 20 to 30 eggs from the Daycare man, place a Pokemon with "Flame Body" or "Magma Armor" (Volcarona or Talonflame are suggested - as they can learn 'Fly') in your first party slot, and then replace all other slots with the unhatched eggs. Then fly to the middle of Lumoise City (Prism Tower) and gently slip a dime beneath your Control stick. If you place it in the right position, you will continuously circle around the Prism tower, hatching all eggs at a speedy rate - thus reducing the time to find a Shiny. Note: the Daycare man will be facing the Road if he has an egg available for you, otherwise, he will be facing the fence. Additionally, the abilities Flame Body and Magma Armor reduce the steps needed to hatch an egg by half.  Edit Pokemon Radar  When you beat the elite four you will have the option to head back to Sycamores Lab in Lumiose City to pick up the Pokemon Radar . There is a scientist with levitating Poke Balls that states he has developed a new tool he wants you to try out. This tool is the Pokemon Radar. To use this device, go into a large grass patch, activate the Poke Radar, and walk (use the D-Pad, not the Circle Pad). The grass will shake showing where Pokemon are located. There are several differing grass shakes. Remember which type you walked into when the Pokemon Battle started.  Slight Shake: There are no Pokemon here.  Regular Shake: Pokemon will be present here.  Heavy Shake: Pokemon will be present here.  Shining and Shaking: Shiny Pokemon will be present here.  When you first start your Poke Radar, you will have a chance to find a Pokemon. Once you find and defeat that Pokemon, more grass will shake. Grass that is four segments away with the same shake from before will most likely contain the same species of Pokemon you previously fought. By chaining these Pokemon, you increase your odds of finding a shiny. If you get to 40 encounters of the same Pokemon without breaking the streak, your odds of finding a shiny are 1/50 (1/200 but 4 grass shakes happen). At this point you do not want to start any new battles, you will want to just recharge the Poke Radar by running back and forth 100 steps without running into any shaking grass.  Edit Tips:  Use super repels, this will help you maintain your streak.  Shaking grass that is four segments away will most likely have the same species of Pokemon  Rarer Pokemon are harder to chain.  You can only chain in short grass and flowers.  Quick Balls are your best friend in case you run into a shiny.  Use a tally on your phone or keep a pen and paper to count your chain.  If the music stops and no grass shakes, your chain is broken.  Using the thumbstick for roller skates, or a bike, will break your chain.  If no grass shakes, charge the Poke Radar and use it again, sometimes the shaking grass will spawn outside of your area and your chain will continue.  Edit Fishing Rod Chaining    This method uses an old and simple item introduced in the very first generation of Pokémon: the Fishing Rod . This is how you can get a Shiny Pokémon by fishing:  First of all, you have to get either the Old Rod (Aquarium in Ambrette Town ), the Good Rod ( Coumarine City ) or the Super Rod ( Route 16 ).  Once you get a Rod, start fishing. You need to create chains of hooked Pokémon, each time you get a battle from fishing, the chances of getting a Shiny Pokémon increases.  It's important to note that the chain will break if you move from the space you are in, so pick one spot and don't move from there. Also, it's better to pick a place surrounded by blocks, rocks, etc., to, let's say, "corner" the Pokémon.  Once you land a Pokémon there's no need to fight it, you can run from the battle and try again. Remember not to move from your spot after the battle.  For better results, get yourself a Pokémon with the ability Suction Cups or Sticky Hold . When a Pokémon with one of these abilities is at the lead of your party, you will always land a Pokemon when fishing. If you don't have one of these abilities, you may get the message "Nothing seems to be biting...", which will break the chain. Also, if you press A too soon or too late, that will cause you to fail landing a Pokémon.             Exit Theatre Mode                 Next Pokedex Previous In-Game Trades                © 1996-2018  Ziff Davis, LLC       Join the IGN Newsletter    Contact Us  Careers  Advertise  Accessibility  Support  Terms of Use  AdChoices           ×   We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here .  IGN uses cookies and other tracking technologies to customize online advertisements, and for other purposes. IGN supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles. Learn More                                                 MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Video Games » Multi Platform Games » Pokemon Video Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Find Shiny Pokémon  Six Methods: Chaining Breeding Fishing Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries SOS Chaining Ultra Wormholes Community Q&A  Shiny Pokémon are the Rolls Royces of the Pokémon world. These Pokémon are incredibly rare, and act as a status symbol for trainers that own some. Shiny Pokémon have different color schemes than standard Pokémon, but otherwise have identical stats and traits. Getting a Shiny Pokémon is a test of patience, especially if you want to create a whole team of Shinies, but the feeling of satisfaction will be worth it.         Steps    Method  1   Chaining      1   Understand the concept. Encountering a Shiny Pokémon in the wild is a 1/8192 chance. Although this chance is 1/4096 in the newer games, that's really, really low. Chaining is the practice of encountering the same Pokémon repeatedly to increase the chances that a Shiny version will appear. Breaking the chain at any time will reset your chances, making it a slightly tedious experience.  You cannot chain in Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, White 2, HeartGold, or SoulSilver as there is no PokéRadar available. You can chain for Shinies in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, X, Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon        2   Get yourself the PokéRadar. The PokéRadar becomes available after you have defeated the Elite Four. This tool will show you spots in the grass where you can encounter wild Pokémon, and is essential to creating a chain.  Register the PokéRadar to one of your buttons, and unregister any other items (bike, fishing rod, etc.). Using any other item while chaining, even by accident, will reset your chain.       3   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex, so it may take a while. Equipping it will increase your chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2 and White 2, X and Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Sun and Moon, & Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       4   Buy a lot of Super Repels. These items keep random Pokémon from attacking you, and are critical to keeping your chain intact. You should ALWAYS be under the effects of a Super Repel while chaining. It is recommended that you have at least 200 for extended chaining sessions.  Make sure you have a good supply of Pokéballs to catch the Shiny Pokémon. [1]        5   Prepare your team. Assemble a team of well-rounded Pokémon with lots of PP so that regardless of the type of shiny Pokémon you encounter, you will always have someone in your team to beat it. You can use the PP remaining to count your chain as well.  It will really help to have a Pokémon that knows False Swipe, so you can lower the HP of the Shiny Pokémon to 1 without knocking it out.  Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze will also make more difficult Pokémon easier to capture.       6   Decide on your target. Shiny Pokémon appear in the same locations as their regular versions. This means that you should go to a location where you can find normal versions of the Shiny Pokémon you want.     7   Find a large patch of grass. To make chaining easier, you will want to find a patch of grass that is at least 5x5 tiles. This will give you enough room to walk around without breaking your chain, since leaving the patch at any time will break your chain.  Some guides recommend finding patches that are 9x9.       8   Move to the middle of the patch. This will give you the most room to move in any direction.     9   Take your first Super Repel, and then use the PokéRadar to make patches of grass start shaking. Make sure to pay attention to HOW the grass shakes; there are three different ways that the grass can shake. Note the way that the patch you enter is shaking.     10   Walk into your first shaking patch. This will start a battle. If the Pokémon is the type that you want to get as Shiny, KO it to start your chain. If it's not, finish the battle and then walk 50 steps to reset your PokéRadar and start again.     11   Look for the next patch that is shaking the same way as the first one. After KOing the first Pokémon, move onto the next shaking patch to continue the chain. There are several very important aspects to keep in mind:  The next patch must be at least 4 tiles away from you (the numbers vary from guide to guide, but this number is a safe number that will keep your chain active).  The next patch must be shaking the same way that the previous patch was.  If the patch you pick is at the edge of the grass area, you will need to reset your PokéRadar after the fight. Do this by walking 50 steps without fighting and then using it again. Be sure to not leave the grassy area!       12   Repeat the process to raise your chain. Keep finding patches of grass to keep encountering the same Pokémon. Each time you defeat one, your chain will increase by 1. You can either make a tally on a piece of paper or use a Pokémon with a high PP attack to act as a counter. Increase your chain until you get to 40.  If your chain breaks for any reason, you'll have to start over.  Saving your game or quitting will break your chain.  Using the Roller Skates will break your chain.  Leaving the field will break your chain.  Fleeing a battle will break your chain.  Encountering any other Pokémon will break your chain.       13   Start resetting your PokéRadar to try to make shiny patches appear. Once you've reached a 40 chain, your odds are as high as they are going to get. You can now start resetting your PokéRadar until a shiny patch of shaking grass appears. Shiny patches will start appearing in about 1 out of 50 resets. Reset your PokéRadar every 50 steps to cycle through patches as quickly as possible. [2]  Once you've gotten your chain to 40, it can still take a significant amount of time to make a shiny patch appear.       14   Start the fight. Once you see the shiny patch, congratulations! You've summoned a Shiny Pokémon. All that's left to do is capture the Shiny Pokémon found inside. You can capture them just like you would a regular Pokémon. Make sure you don't knock it out! [3]                Method  2   Breeding      1   Obtain a Pokémon from another real-life region. The key to breeding a Shiny Pokémon is to breed Pokémon from two different regions. For example, if you live in the USA, obtain a Pokémon from Japan or Europe. Make sure to obtain the Pokémon that you want to get a Shiny version of.  This breeding method, also known as the Masuda method, is only available in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, HeartGold, SoulSilver, Black, White, Black 2, White 2, X, and Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon  The easiest way to get a Pokémon from another region is to trade with someone. There are several popular trading sites online that can make this a fairly simple process, such as PokéBay and Reddit's Pokémon Trading subreddit.  The two Pokémon must be able to breed normally with each other. This means they must be the same species or share an Egg Group, and are opposite genders. If the Pokémon you want to breed is genderless, then you will need to breed it with a Ditto.  You can tell what region the Pokémon is from by looking at its PokéDex entry. In the upper-right corner, there will be a three-letter abbreviation for the region the Pokémon is from (JPN, FRE, ITA, etc.). If there is nothing there, then the Pokémon is from your own region.       2   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex. Equipping it will raise the chances that the egg that hatches contains a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2, White 2, X, and Y.       3   Put both Pokémon in the Day Care. Depending on their compatibility, the chance of you receiving an egg from the pairing can be anywhere from 70% down to 20%. The game calculates the chance for an egg every 256 steps you take in the world.  You can increase the speed by riding your bike instead of walking.       4   Receive your egg. Once you get an egg, you'll need to hatch it. This can take a little while, and you won't know what's inside until it hatches. By breeding Pokémon from two different regions, your chances for a Shiny go from 1/8192 to 1/1024 (8x more likely). [4]           Method  3   Fishing      1   Understand how fishing streaks work. Pokémon X and Y introduced the concept of "fishing streaks". This requires you to continuously hook wild Pokémon without pulling up nothing or messing up the reel timing. Increasing your streak will increase the chances of catching a Shiny.     2   Gather your equipment. Make sure you have plenty of PokéBalls, as well as a fishing rod. You don't need special rods to perform streaks, but the rod you use will determine the level and type of Pokémon that you can catch.     3   Prepare your party. You will need Pokémon that can beat any Pokémon that you catch on the rod. You will also want a Pokémon with "Suction Cups" or "Sticky Hold" to be the first Pokémon in your party. This will increase the odds of hooking a wild Pokémon, which is essential for fishing streaks.     4   Find a good location. You can increase your chances for hooking a Pokémon by fishing in an enclosed water tile. For example, if you're fishing from the back of a Pokémon, try to find a tile that is surrounded by the land, a rock, you, and an unfishable deep water tile.     5   Start fishing. Once you've found a good spot, cast your line to start fishing. Press "A" as soon as you see the notice that you have a Pokémon on the line. Any of the following messages or actions will cause the streak to end:  "Nothing seems to be biting..." - This is a random occurrence, but can be mitigated by fishing in an enclosed spot.  "No! You reeled in too fast!" - You pressed the A button too soon.  "No! You reeled in too slow!" - You pressed the A button too late.  Leaving the area.  Starting a battle outside of fishing.  Quitting the game.       6   Keep trying. As long as you are successfully hooking Pokémon, your streak will increase. This will increase the odds of finding a Shiny, up to a certain point. Because it is random, there is still the chance that you will not find a Shiny, even after successfully catching numerous Pokémon with your rod.          Method  4   Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries      1   Save right before picking your starting Pokémon or starting a Legendary battle. There is a very small chance that the Pokémon you pick will be Shiny. Save right before picking or starting the battle.     2   Pick the Pokémon or start the fight with the Legendary. If the Pokémon is not Shiny, restart your game.  This will not work on Legendaries in Pokémon X, Y, and some Legendary Pokémon in Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       3   Load your save and try again. This is a long and very time consuming process. Some people have reported it taking over 1000 tries. If you keep trying, however, you may be able to get a Shiny starter or Legendary.  If the Legendary fight is one where the Pokémon will automatically run, it will still be Shiny when you meet it later.            Method  5   SOS Chaining      1   Load up your copy of Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon. This will only work on these games.     2   Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well. If it knows moves such as Explosion or Double Edge, then make sure to prepare for it. Check if the Pokémon can call for help--if not, then this method won't work on it. To counter self-destructing moves, use a Pokémon with the ability Damp. To counter recoil moves, use Skill Swap with a Pokémon with the ability Rock Head or use a Ghost type, as these moves are usually Normal-type.     3   Get some Adrenaline Orbs to allow easier chaining. They increase the odds of Pokémon calling for help. Having Pokémon call for help more will increase the speed of finding your shiny.     4   Have a Pokemon with the move False Swipe or Hold Back on your team. False Swipe is TM54, and a wide array of Pokémon can learn it.     5   Encounter the target Pokémon you want the shiny of. It has to be a Pokémon you can encounter naturally in the wild, so Ultra Beasts, the Tapus, and Legendary Pokémon will not work with this method.     6   Once you find your target, lower its HP to 50% or less. Make sure not to knock it out. At low HP, the Pokémon will start to call for help. This is the start of your hunt.     7   Knock out every Pokémon that is called that is NOT shiny whenever a new Pokémon is called into battle. You can tell if it's not shiny if it stays the same color as usual.     8   Switch Pokemon every 30 to 100 SOS calls. Do so by using False Swipe on the next Pokémon called and knock out the original caller. Knock out the original caller when it's running out of moves--this is why you need to prepare. However, do not swap callers if the other Pokémon isn't the same species as the one you are hunting for.     9   Rinse and repeat until you find the shiny, then catch it. The shiny will sparkle as it enters the battlefield.          Method  6   Ultra Wormholes      1   Start up your Pokemon Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon game. This method only works for these games.     2   (Optional tip) Go to the Game Freak Headquarters on Akala Island. After you have completed the main story mode and defeated the Elite-Four, you can choose either to change how you control Solgaleo/ Lunala through the Ultra Wormhole through two options. 1. Motion Controls or 2. Circle-Pad Controls. This is for better accuracy if you are not comfortable using motion controls.     3   Go to the Altar of the Sun/or Moon. You need to have successfully defeated the Elite-Four to and completed the story mode.     4   Enter through the wormhole. This is located in the front of the Sun/Moon symbol on the ground. Choose Enter the Ultra Wormhole.     5   Catching the shiny Pokemon. There are 20 Pokemon you can catch shiny. You have a higher chance of encountering a shiny Pokemon if you travel farther into the Ultra Wormhole. The more rings a hole has, the rarer the Pokemon. But be careful! If you see a Wormhole with three rings and more smaller rings, that indicates a legendary Pokemon. Unless you are shiny hunting a legendary, do not enter through this Wormhole. See Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries for catching legendary Pokemon in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.             Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      What is the Horde Hunting method?        Bun bun     This is when you repeatedly use Sweet Scent or Honey to encounter hordes of Pokémon. People view this as an efficient method, as there are 5 Pokémon in a horde, so it makes you find a shiny 5 times as fast!   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 6  Helpful 40           Will the sweet scent method work to find a shiny Pokemon?    wikiHow Contributor   In Oras and X/Y, yes. You'll get a herd of Pokemon, and your luck to find a shiny ups to 5/4096. I got some of my own shinies with this method, and those hunts were the shortest.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 16  Helpful 58           I want a shiny starter! How can I decrease my chances of having to restart 1000 times?    wikiHow Contributor   Try breeding a starter. It might be expensive, but If you mange to get a female starter, you can use method two. You only have 1 in 8 chance to get a female starter though, so remember to use your SRs and save.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 14  Helpful 46           Do I continue hatching eggs if I don't get a shiny Pokemon?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 2  Helpful 11           I'm trying to get a shiny through Masuda method breeding. Does having one of the parents be a shiny?        Bun bun     No. The Masuda method is simply breeding 2 Pokémon from different places in the world.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 5  Helpful 16           Are Legendaries in Or/As (Groudon/Kyogre) shiny locked?     Audreywozniak    Yes. You cannot catch a shiny Groudon or Kyogre without hacking the game code or trading with someone who hacked the game code to get one.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 37           Can a regular Pokemon evolve to a shiny one?    wikiHow Contributor   No, they cannot. You have to either encounter one in the wild, or hatch one. However, shiny Pokemon do evolve into their next evolution's shiny form.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 15  Helpful 33           How can I get a Shiny easily?    wikiHow Contributor   There's no "super easy" way to get a shiny Pokemon --  they'd be a lot less rare if there was. However, some of the easier ways are chain fishing (don't move from your spot while you fish, and have a suction cup/sticky hold Pokemon at the front of your party); horde encounters in X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire (use the move Sweet Scent or the item Honey); and the Friend Safari in X and Y (not the Safari Zone in other games. Pokemon in the Friend Safari have a 1/512 chance to be shiny, but you need to add friends on your 3DS). Additionally, the Shiny Charm raises your odds by 300%, but it can only be obtained after you've completed the National (not regional) Dex in Gens 5 and 6.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 8  Helpful 18           What do they mean by other regions?        Lugia2453     It means another country/geographical area outside of the one in which you live.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 19  Helpful 33           Will an English and a Spanish Pokemon have a higher chance to create a shiny just like an English and Japanese breeding together?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 27         Show more answers     Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Don't know what to hunt for? Try Caterpie. It can be used in Masuda Method breeding, can be chained on X and Y, and can call for help in Sun and Moon. Chain fishing for Remoraid is quick and easy too, as it is very common.       Warnings    Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well, as it may knock itself out if you're not prepared.  Don't use moves in SOS chaining that will hit both opposing Pokémon. You may accidentally knock it out.  None of these methods are guaranteed to get you a Shiny Pokémon. All they do is increase your chances of finding one. Finding Shiny Pokémon will still boil down to lots of luck and patience.  Some Pokémon will never be shiny by legitimate means. This is what fans call "shiny locked."        Edit Related wikiHows       How to Randomize a Pokémon Game      How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions      How to Evolve Magikarp      How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team      How to Create Your Own Pokémon      How to Make Your Own Pokémon Game      How to Hatch Pokémon Eggs      How to Evolve Pichu      How to Breed Pokémon      How to EV Train Your Pokémon       Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.psypokes.com/lab/shiny.php    ↑  http://www.smogon.com/ingame/guides/chaining    ↑  http://www.reddit.com/r/pokemon/comments/1ot6ex/chaining_tutorial/    ↑  http://www.usgamer.net/articles/how-to-get-a-shiny-pokemon-in-pokemon-x-and-y      Show more... (1)                Article Info   Categories: Pokemon Video Games  In other languages:  Русский: достать сияющего покемона , Português: Encontrar Pokémons Shiny , Español: encontrar un Pokémon variocolor , Deutsch: Shiny Pokemon finden , Bahasa Indonesia: Menemukan Shiny Pokemon , Français: trouver un Pokémon chromatique , Italiano: Trovare i Pokemon Cromatici , Nederlands: Een Shiny Pokémon bemachtigen    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 643,248 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .     84% of readers found this article helpful .                       19 votes - 84%   Click a star to add your vote   84% of people told us that this article helped them.       Co-authors: 43    Updated:   Views: 643,248       Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Randomize a Pokémon Game How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions How to Evolve Magikarp How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                238                                                  MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Video Games » Multi Platform Games » Pokemon Video Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Find Shiny Pokémon  Six Methods: Chaining Breeding Fishing Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries SOS Chaining Ultra Wormholes Community Q&A  Shiny Pokémon are the Rolls Royces of the Pokémon world. These Pokémon are incredibly rare, and act as a status symbol for trainers that own some. Shiny Pokémon have different color schemes than standard Pokémon, but otherwise have identical stats and traits. Getting a Shiny Pokémon is a test of patience, especially if you want to create a whole team of Shinies, but the feeling of satisfaction will be worth it.         Steps    Method  1   Chaining      1   Understand the concept. Encountering a Shiny Pokémon in the wild is a 1/8192 chance. Although this chance is 1/4096 in the newer games, that's really, really low. Chaining is the practice of encountering the same Pokémon repeatedly to increase the chances that a Shiny version will appear. Breaking the chain at any time will reset your chances, making it a slightly tedious experience.  You cannot chain in Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, White 2, HeartGold, or SoulSilver as there is no PokéRadar available. You can chain for Shinies in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, X, Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon        2   Get yourself the PokéRadar. The PokéRadar becomes available after you have defeated the Elite Four. This tool will show you spots in the grass where you can encounter wild Pokémon, and is essential to creating a chain.  Register the PokéRadar to one of your buttons, and unregister any other items (bike, fishing rod, etc.). Using any other item while chaining, even by accident, will reset your chain.       3   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex, so it may take a while. Equipping it will increase your chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2 and White 2, X and Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Sun and Moon, & Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       4   Buy a lot of Super Repels. These items keep random Pokémon from attacking you, and are critical to keeping your chain intact. You should ALWAYS be under the effects of a Super Repel while chaining. It is recommended that you have at least 200 for extended chaining sessions.  Make sure you have a good supply of Pokéballs to catch the Shiny Pokémon. [1]        5   Prepare your team. Assemble a team of well-rounded Pokémon with lots of PP so that regardless of the type of shiny Pokémon you encounter, you will always have someone in your team to beat it. You can use the PP remaining to count your chain as well.  It will really help to have a Pokémon that knows False Swipe, so you can lower the HP of the Shiny Pokémon to 1 without knocking it out.  Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze will also make more difficult Pokémon easier to capture.       6   Decide on your target. Shiny Pokémon appear in the same locations as their regular versions. This means that you should go to a location where you can find normal versions of the Shiny Pokémon you want.     7   Find a large patch of grass. To make chaining easier, you will want to find a patch of grass that is at least 5x5 tiles. This will give you enough room to walk around without breaking your chain, since leaving the patch at any time will break your chain.  Some guides recommend finding patches that are 9x9.       8   Move to the middle of the patch. This will give you the most room to move in any direction.     9   Take your first Super Repel, and then use the PokéRadar to make patches of grass start shaking. Make sure to pay attention to HOW the grass shakes; there are three different ways that the grass can shake. Note the way that the patch you enter is shaking.     10   Walk into your first shaking patch. This will start a battle. If the Pokémon is the type that you want to get as Shiny, KO it to start your chain. If it's not, finish the battle and then walk 50 steps to reset your PokéRadar and start again.     11   Look for the next patch that is shaking the same way as the first one. After KOing the first Pokémon, move onto the next shaking patch to continue the chain. There are several very important aspects to keep in mind:  The next patch must be at least 4 tiles away from you (the numbers vary from guide to guide, but this number is a safe number that will keep your chain active).  The next patch must be shaking the same way that the previous patch was.  If the patch you pick is at the edge of the grass area, you will need to reset your PokéRadar after the fight. Do this by walking 50 steps without fighting and then using it again. Be sure to not leave the grassy area!       12   Repeat the process to raise your chain. Keep finding patches of grass to keep encountering the same Pokémon. Each time you defeat one, your chain will increase by 1. You can either make a tally on a piece of paper or use a Pokémon with a high PP attack to act as a counter. Increase your chain until you get to 40.  If your chain breaks for any reason, you'll have to start over.  Saving your game or quitting will break your chain.  Using the Roller Skates will break your chain.  Leaving the field will break your chain.  Fleeing a battle will break your chain.  Encountering any other Pokémon will break your chain.       13   Start resetting your PokéRadar to try to make shiny patches appear. Once you've reached a 40 chain, your odds are as high as they are going to get. You can now start resetting your PokéRadar until a shiny patch of shaking grass appears. Shiny patches will start appearing in about 1 out of 50 resets. Reset your PokéRadar every 50 steps to cycle through patches as quickly as possible. [2]  Once you've gotten your chain to 40, it can still take a significant amount of time to make a shiny patch appear.       14   Start the fight. Once you see the shiny patch, congratulations! You've summoned a Shiny Pokémon. All that's left to do is capture the Shiny Pokémon found inside. You can capture them just like you would a regular Pokémon. Make sure you don't knock it out! [3]                Method  2   Breeding      1   Obtain a Pokémon from another real-life region. The key to breeding a Shiny Pokémon is to breed Pokémon from two different regions. For example, if you live in the USA, obtain a Pokémon from Japan or Europe. Make sure to obtain the Pokémon that you want to get a Shiny version of.  This breeding method, also known as the Masuda method, is only available in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, HeartGold, SoulSilver, Black, White, Black 2, White 2, X, and Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon  The easiest way to get a Pokémon from another region is to trade with someone. There are several popular trading sites online that can make this a fairly simple process, such as PokéBay and Reddit's Pokémon Trading subreddit.  The two Pokémon must be able to breed normally with each other. This means they must be the same species or share an Egg Group, and are opposite genders. If the Pokémon you want to breed is genderless, then you will need to breed it with a Ditto.  You can tell what region the Pokémon is from by looking at its PokéDex entry. In the upper-right corner, there will be a three-letter abbreviation for the region the Pokémon is from (JPN, FRE, ITA, etc.). If there is nothing there, then the Pokémon is from your own region.       2   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex. Equipping it will raise the chances that the egg that hatches contains a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2, White 2, X, and Y.       3   Put both Pokémon in the Day Care. Depending on their compatibility, the chance of you receiving an egg from the pairing can be anywhere from 70% down to 20%. The game calculates the chance for an egg every 256 steps you take in the world.  You can increase the speed by riding your bike instead of walking.       4   Receive your egg. Once you get an egg, you'll need to hatch it. This can take a little while, and you won't know what's inside until it hatches. By breeding Pokémon from two different regions, your chances for a Shiny go from 1/8192 to 1/1024 (8x more likely). [4]           Method  3   Fishing      1   Understand how fishing streaks work. Pokémon X and Y introduced the concept of "fishing streaks". This requires you to continuously hook wild Pokémon without pulling up nothing or messing up the reel timing. Increasing your streak will increase the chances of catching a Shiny.     2   Gather your equipment. Make sure you have plenty of PokéBalls, as well as a fishing rod. You don't need special rods to perform streaks, but the rod you use will determine the level and type of Pokémon that you can catch.     3   Prepare your party. You will need Pokémon that can beat any Pokémon that you catch on the rod. You will also want a Pokémon with "Suction Cups" or "Sticky Hold" to be the first Pokémon in your party. This will increase the odds of hooking a wild Pokémon, which is essential for fishing streaks.     4   Find a good location. You can increase your chances for hooking a Pokémon by fishing in an enclosed water tile. For example, if you're fishing from the back of a Pokémon, try to find a tile that is surrounded by the land, a rock, you, and an unfishable deep water tile.     5   Start fishing. Once you've found a good spot, cast your line to start fishing. Press "A" as soon as you see the notice that you have a Pokémon on the line. Any of the following messages or actions will cause the streak to end:  "Nothing seems to be biting..." - This is a random occurrence, but can be mitigated by fishing in an enclosed spot.  "No! You reeled in too fast!" - You pressed the A button too soon.  "No! You reeled in too slow!" - You pressed the A button too late.  Leaving the area.  Starting a battle outside of fishing.  Quitting the game.       6   Keep trying. As long as you are successfully hooking Pokémon, your streak will increase. This will increase the odds of finding a Shiny, up to a certain point. Because it is random, there is still the chance that you will not find a Shiny, even after successfully catching numerous Pokémon with your rod.          Method  4   Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries      1   Save right before picking your starting Pokémon or starting a Legendary battle. There is a very small chance that the Pokémon you pick will be Shiny. Save right before picking or starting the battle.     2   Pick the Pokémon or start the fight with the Legendary. If the Pokémon is not Shiny, restart your game.  This will not work on Legendaries in Pokémon X, Y, and some Legendary Pokémon in Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       3   Load your save and try again. This is a long and very time consuming process. Some people have reported it taking over 1000 tries. If you keep trying, however, you may be able to get a Shiny starter or Legendary.  If the Legendary fight is one where the Pokémon will automatically run, it will still be Shiny when you meet it later.            Method  5   SOS Chaining      1   Load up your copy of Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon. This will only work on these games.     2   Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well. If it knows moves such as Explosion or Double Edge, then make sure to prepare for it. Check if the Pokémon can call for help--if not, then this method won't work on it. To counter self-destructing moves, use a Pokémon with the ability Damp. To counter recoil moves, use Skill Swap with a Pokémon with the ability Rock Head or use a Ghost type, as these moves are usually Normal-type.     3   Get some Adrenaline Orbs to allow easier chaining. They increase the odds of Pokémon calling for help. Having Pokémon call for help more will increase the speed of finding your shiny.     4   Have a Pokemon with the move False Swipe or Hold Back on your team. False Swipe is TM54, and a wide array of Pokémon can learn it.     5   Encounter the target Pokémon you want the shiny of. It has to be a Pokémon you can encounter naturally in the wild, so Ultra Beasts, the Tapus, and Legendary Pokémon will not work with this method.     6   Once you find your target, lower its HP to 50% or less. Make sure not to knock it out. At low HP, the Pokémon will start to call for help. This is the start of your hunt.     7   Knock out every Pokémon that is called that is NOT shiny whenever a new Pokémon is called into battle. You can tell if it's not shiny if it stays the same color as usual.     8   Switch Pokemon every 30 to 100 SOS calls. Do so by using False Swipe on the next Pokémon called and knock out the original caller. Knock out the original caller when it's running out of moves--this is why you need to prepare. However, do not swap callers if the other Pokémon isn't the same species as the one you are hunting for.     9   Rinse and repeat until you find the shiny, then catch it. The shiny will sparkle as it enters the battlefield.          Method  6   Ultra Wormholes      1   Start up your Pokemon Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon game. This method only works for these games.     2   (Optional tip) Go to the Game Freak Headquarters on Akala Island. After you have completed the main story mode and defeated the Elite-Four, you can choose either to change how you control Solgaleo/ Lunala through the Ultra Wormhole through two options. 1. Motion Controls or 2. Circle-Pad Controls. This is for better accuracy if you are not comfortable using motion controls.     3   Go to the Altar of the Sun/or Moon. You need to have successfully defeated the Elite-Four to and completed the story mode.     4   Enter through the wormhole. This is located in the front of the Sun/Moon symbol on the ground. Choose Enter the Ultra Wormhole.     5   Catching the shiny Pokemon. There are 20 Pokemon you can catch shiny. You have a higher chance of encountering a shiny Pokemon if you travel farther into the Ultra Wormhole. The more rings a hole has, the rarer the Pokemon. But be careful! If you see a Wormhole with three rings and more smaller rings, that indicates a legendary Pokemon. Unless you are shiny hunting a legendary, do not enter through this Wormhole. See Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries for catching legendary Pokemon in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.             Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      What is the Horde Hunting method?        Bun bun     This is when you repeatedly use Sweet Scent or Honey to encounter hordes of Pokémon. People view this as an efficient method, as there are 5 Pokémon in a horde, so it makes you find a shiny 5 times as fast!   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 6  Helpful 40           Will the sweet scent method work to find a shiny Pokemon?    wikiHow Contributor   In Oras and X/Y, yes. You'll get a herd of Pokemon, and your luck to find a shiny ups to 5/4096. I got some of my own shinies with this method, and those hunts were the shortest.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 16  Helpful 58           I want a shiny starter! How can I decrease my chances of having to restart 1000 times?    wikiHow Contributor   Try breeding a starter. It might be expensive, but If you mange to get a female starter, you can use method two. You only have 1 in 8 chance to get a female starter though, so remember to use your SRs and save.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 14  Helpful 46           Do I continue hatching eggs if I don't get a shiny Pokemon?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 2  Helpful 11           I'm trying to get a shiny through Masuda method breeding. Does having one of the parents be a shiny?        Bun bun     No. The Masuda method is simply breeding 2 Pokémon from different places in the world.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 5  Helpful 16           Are Legendaries in Or/As (Groudon/Kyogre) shiny locked?     Audreywozniak    Yes. You cannot catch a shiny Groudon or Kyogre without hacking the game code or trading with someone who hacked the game code to get one.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 37           Can a regular Pokemon evolve to a shiny one?    wikiHow Contributor   No, they cannot. You have to either encounter one in the wild, or hatch one. However, shiny Pokemon do evolve into their next evolution's shiny form.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 15  Helpful 33           How can I get a Shiny easily?    wikiHow Contributor   There's no "super easy" way to get a shiny Pokemon --  they'd be a lot less rare if there was. However, some of the easier ways are chain fishing (don't move from your spot while you fish, and have a suction cup/sticky hold Pokemon at the front of your party); horde encounters in X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire (use the move Sweet Scent or the item Honey); and the Friend Safari in X and Y (not the Safari Zone in other games. Pokemon in the Friend Safari have a 1/512 chance to be shiny, but you need to add friends on your 3DS). Additionally, the Shiny Charm raises your odds by 300%, but it can only be obtained after you've completed the National (not regional) Dex in Gens 5 and 6.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 8  Helpful 18           What do they mean by other regions?        Lugia2453     It means another country/geographical area outside of the one in which you live.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 19  Helpful 33           Will an English and a Spanish Pokemon have a higher chance to create a shiny just like an English and Japanese breeding together?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 27         Show more answers     Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Don't know what to hunt for? Try Caterpie. It can be used in Masuda Method breeding, can be chained on X and Y, and can call for help in Sun and Moon. Chain fishing for Remoraid is quick and easy too, as it is very common.       Warnings    Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well, as it may knock itself out if you're not prepared.  Don't use moves in SOS chaining that will hit both opposing Pokémon. You may accidentally knock it out.  None of these methods are guaranteed to get you a Shiny Pokémon. All they do is increase your chances of finding one. Finding Shiny Pokémon will still boil down to lots of luck and patience.  Some Pokémon will never be shiny by legitimate means. This is what fans call "shiny locked."        Edit Related wikiHows       How to Randomize a Pokémon Game      How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions      How to Evolve Magikarp      How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team      How to Create Your Own Pokémon      How to Make Your Own Pokémon Game      How to Hatch Pokémon Eggs      How to Evolve Pichu      How to Breed Pokémon      How to EV Train Your Pokémon       Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.psypokes.com/lab/shiny.php    ↑  http://www.smogon.com/ingame/guides/chaining    ↑  http://www.reddit.com/r/pokemon/comments/1ot6ex/chaining_tutorial/    ↑  http://www.usgamer.net/articles/how-to-get-a-shiny-pokemon-in-pokemon-x-and-y      Show more... (1)                Article Info   Categories: Pokemon Video Games  In other languages:  Русский: достать сияющего покемона , Português: Encontrar Pokémons Shiny , Español: encontrar un Pokémon variocolor , Deutsch: Shiny Pokemon finden , Bahasa Indonesia: Menemukan Shiny Pokemon , Français: trouver un Pokémon chromatique , Italiano: Trovare i Pokemon Cromatici , Nederlands: Een Shiny Pokémon bemachtigen    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 643,248 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .     84% of readers found this article helpful .                       19 votes - 84%   Click a star to add your vote   84% of people told us that this article helped them.       Co-authors: 43    Updated:   Views: 643,248       Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Randomize a Pokémon Game How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions How to Evolve Magikarp How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                238        Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Want no interruptions?       Loading...      No problem. Get more with YouTube Red         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Odds Increased to 1/1000 + Graphics:Effects)                 eManu123436              Loading...        Unsubscribe from eManu123436?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 3.8K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   93,608 views         274   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     275    134   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     135            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Oct 12, 2013 The odds of finding a shiny pokemon in x and y have been decreased to 1/1000! (Edit: the information in the video has been proven wrong-the XY Shiny odds are 1/4096) Also, the shiny starters have been shown, and the graphics and effects of shiny pokemon in battle can be seen now! Thanks for watching! If my username is not emanu123436 or Pokemontrainermanu, that not only means I was rude enough to steal Manu's video, but I was so dumb that I didn't even take this part out of the description. Anyway, if you guys are liking the videos, subscribe for more and more pokemon videos! I will be uploading all sorts of videos, from game challenges to cool facts and more..     Game   Pokémon X and Y - 2013 ( YouTube Gaming )     Category   Gaming     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       3 Ways to Get a Shiny Pokémon in X & Y - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 7:49.  TamashiiHiroka  3,227,003 views     7:49               EPIC FAIL: Shiny Miltank in Pokemon Y after 4390 Random Encounters  - Duration: 5:01.  eManu123436  164,668 views     5:01      [First Live On Youtube] Shiny Fennekin After 939 SRs! (Pokémon X BQ#1!)  - Duration: 12:57.  Pleiʌdes  194,923 views     12:57      How to get shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (All Methods/Updated Version)  - Duration: 25:24.  Mulvone  2,150,273 views     25:24      Ed Edd n Eddy Live Stream 24/7 -  Ed Edd n Eddy Fullscreen 720p #1    Ed Edd n Eddy Live 24/7  1,322 watching Live now          Top 10 Pokémon X & Y Mysteries - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:39.  TamashiiHiroka  2,208,442 views     9:39      All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Including Shiny Xerneas and Shiny Yveltal) So Far  - Duration: 1:23.  eManu123436  110,738 views     1:23      Shiny Pokemon  - Duration: 9:42.  eManu123436  21,659 views     9:42      Top 10 Signs That You MIGHT be Addicted To Pokemon!  - Duration: 16:21.  SilverLeagueNetworks  934,866 views     16:21      Top 5 Coolest Looking Shiny Pokemon in X and Y  - Duration: 4:34.  ABrandonToThePast  884,082 views     4:34      All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (FINAL EDITION: Xerneas, Yveltal + Zygarde)  - Duration: 1:56.  eManu123436  46,451 views     1:56      Top 10 Shiny Pokemon: Kanto  - Duration: 6:17.  eManu123436  28,917 views     6:17      Top 10 Creepy Things in Pokémon  - Duration: 8:47.  TheJWittz  5,662,591 views     8:47      Random Horde Shiny! Shiny Durant in X Version!!!!! | TheSupremeRk9s  - Duration: 7:36.  TheSupremeRk9s  65,728 views     7:36      Top 10 Shiny Pokémon - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:37.  TamashiiHiroka  1,314,719 views     9:37      Top 10 Best Pokeballs (Coolest Designs)  - Duration: 6:33.  eManu123436  22,399 views     6:33      Pokémon X and Y - Where To Catch/Get Torchic With A Mega Stone  - Duration: 3:20.  FusionZGamer  628,408 views     3:20      Pokemon X and Y: Shiny Raggenrola in a Horde, Random Encounter  - Duration: 6:58.  iaTGamers  14,967 views     6:58      Pokemon Theory: The Pokedex Was Already Completed Before Red?!  - Duration: 8:47.  ProtoMario  1,344,725 views     8:47      All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Official: Xerneas, Yveltal + Zygarde)  - Duration: 1:50.  eManu123436  113,020 views     1:50     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Want no interruptions?       Loading...      No problem. Get more with YouTube Red         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Odds Increased to 1/1000 + Graphics:Effects)                 eManu123436              Loading...        Unsubscribe from eManu123436?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 3.8K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   93,608 views         274   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     275    134   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     135            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Oct 12, 2013 The odds of finding a shiny pokemon in x and y have been decreased to 1/1000! (Edit: the information in the video has been proven wrong-the XY Shiny odds are 1/4096) Also, the shiny starters have been shown, and the graphics and effects of shiny pokemon in battle can be seen now! Thanks for watching! If my username is not emanu123436 or Pokemontrainermanu, that not only means I was rude enough to steal Manu's video, but I was so dumb that I didn't even take this part out of the description. Anyway, if you guys are liking the videos, subscribe for more and more pokemon videos! I will be uploading all sorts of videos, from game challenges to cool facts and more..     Game   Pokémon X and Y - 2013 ( YouTube Gaming )     Category   Gaming     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       3 Ways to Get a Shiny Pokémon in X & Y - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 7:49.  TamashiiHiroka  3,227,003 views     7:49               EPIC FAIL: Shiny Miltank in Pokemon Y after 4390 Random Encounters  - Duration: 5:01.  eManu123436  164,668 views     5:01      [First Live On Youtube] Shiny Fennekin After 939 SRs! (Pokémon X BQ#1!)  - Duration: 12:57.  Pleiʌdes  194,923 views     12:57      How to get shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (All Methods/Updated Version)  - Duration: 25:24.  Mulvone  2,150,273 views     25:24      Top 10 Pokémon X & Y Mysteries - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:39.  TamashiiHiroka  2,208,442 views     9:39      Top 10 Signs That You MIGHT be Addicted To Pokemon!  - Duration: 16:21.  SilverLeagueNetworks  934,866 views     16:21      Top 10 Creepy Things in Pokémon  - Duration: 8:47.  TheJWittz  5,662,591 views     8:47      Top 5 Coolest Looking Shiny Pokemon in X and Y  - Duration: 4:34.  ABrandonToThePast  884,082 views     4:34      Top 10 Shiny Pokémon - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:37.  TamashiiHiroka  1,314,719 views     9:37      Pokémon X and Pokémon Y - Shiny Hunting Guide | Introduction  - Duration: 9:11.  TheOneIntegral  204,473 views     9:11      Shiny Pokemon  - Duration: 9:42.  eManu123436  21,659 views     9:42      Top 10 Shiny Pokemon: Kanto  - Duration: 6:17.  eManu123436  28,917 views     6:17      Top 10 Best Pokeballs (Coolest Designs)  - Duration: 6:33.  eManu123436  22,399 views     6:33      Random Horde Shiny! Shiny Durant in X Version!!!!! | TheSupremeRk9s  - Duration: 7:36.  TheSupremeRk9s  65,728 views     7:36      Top 10 Pokemon That Should Have Pre-Evolutions in Pokemon X & Y!  - Duration: 6:49.  Kanto University  842,563 views     6:49      Pokemon X and Y Wi-Fi Battle: shofu vs Sofiel  - Duration: 14:36.  shofu  809,023 views     14:36      LIVE!! Shiny Amaura in Pokémon X after 435 SRs/1305 Seen  - Duration: 9:13.  ShinyTwins178  120,309 views     9:13      Pokemon Theory: The Pokedex Was Already Completed Before Red?!  - Duration: 8:47.  ProtoMario  1,344,725 views     8:47      Top 10 Middle Evolution Pokémon - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 11:53.  TamashiiHiroka  1,139,628 views     11:53      Top 5 Pokémon That Got Screwed Over In Pokémon X & Y  - Duration: 5:35.  YellowSwellow  383,512 views     5:35     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                    Sections      News      Reviews      Guides      Analysis      Opinion      Features     $ Deals   RPG Podcast        Like and Follow us:  Facebook  Twitter  Twitch  YouTube            Sign in  Create an account                    How to Get a Shiny Pokemon In Pokemon X and Y  Want a team bursting with shiny Pokemon? Here are three ways to make it happen!   Guide by Cassandra Khaw , 10/24/2013 .      Pokemon is serious business. You enslave them. You breed them. You coerce them into waging wars they have no stake in. But as serious as Game Freak's much beloved simulacrum of antagonistic animal husbandry can be, it pales in comparison to the gravitas of distinguishing yourself from the plebeian masses. Everyone knows that there can only be one Pokemon master.  Still, with more than four million copies of the latest iteration already sold, how does one make one's star shine brighter? Building the ultimate team takes time, effort and research while bribing the Elite Four in exchange for validation would probably require at least a fair understanding of transdimensional travel. In light of all that, here's my suggestion:  Get a shiny Pokemon .  Heck, why stop there? Get a full team. Bewilder your opponents with aesthetic opulence. Humble them with this testament to your luck and determination. Pizzazz wins battles, not hard work and skill. If you're new to the Pokemon franchise and have no idea what I'm talking about, shiny Pokemon are like the Holy Grail (except more accessible and arguably less useful.) In terms of function, they're identical to their more pedestrian cousins. Looks-wise, however, that's where it gets interesting. Shiny Pokemon are uniformly of a weird, often striking pigmentation. And sparkly. Slightly.    As you may have already deduced, they're also ridiculously rare. The chances of breeding a shiny or discovering one in the wild is a dismal 1/8192. Fortunately, there are several ways to circumnavigate the appalling odds.  Breeding for Success  Need more Pokemon help?  Check out these other USgamer Pokemon articles. We have tons of hints, tips and information on how to get the best out of your team – and become a Pokemon master.  Pokemon X and Y Multiplayer Guide: Tips & Tricks, Best Pokemon Teams, Competitive Meta  Hacking Pokemon X & Y: Now With 100% Chance of Shiny Pokemon?  What are the Strongest, Most Competitive Pokemon That'll Help You Build the Best Team  How Do You Know If You Have the Best Pokemon X & Y Team?  Pokemon X and Y Post Game: What to Do After You've Beaten the Elite Four?  More Starter Pokemon, Less Starting Pokemon: We Can Make Pokémon X & Y's Wonder TradeBetter!  Named after Game Freak director Junichi Masuda, the Masuda Method is a technique that was implemented as an attempt to encourage players to perform more transcontinental trades. Smogon University, a website dedicated to the fine art of competitive Pokemon battling, was the first to figure out the method and breeders everywhere have been using it ever since. Just how good is this technique? With the help of the Masuda method, the chances of breeding a shiny Pokemon in Generation IV were increased by 5. By the next iteration, that success rate had shot up to 6 - a definite improvement over the baseline. Unfortunately, though many claim it's still a viable strategy, no official word has been released in regards to whether or not the Masuda Method can still be utilized in the current-gen Pokemon games and if the success rate has escalated even further.  For those willing to risk it, the Masuda Method is pretty simple: breed two Pokemon from different geographical backgrounds (The little tags next to their names will inform you exactly where they're from) together.    That's really it. At least, in regards to necessary knowledge. There's a thread on Smogon that unpacks the exact mechanics behind it ; you can read it if you're keen on understanding specifics.  Now, go have your Pokemon make beautiful music together  Don't break the chain!  'Chaining' Pokemon can be a frustrating chore. If you're good, it can be a short-cut to triumph. If you're not, it might be a broken 3DS screen. The idea behind chaining is reflective of its name: it's the act of meeting the same Pokemon, again and again, in unbroken succession. Purportedly, doing so will significantly increase the success rate of encountering a shiny Pokemon, raising the odds from a horrific 1/8192 to a far more palatable 1/200.  Though guides on chaining are plentiful, u/Cpctherman from Reddit's dissertation on the process is one of the better ones I've read. ( Smogon's guide is even more educational but also exponentially more ponderous a read.) The general gist of it, for those who would rather keep it simple, is this:   You need a PokeRadar, which is only available after the Elite Four.  Super repels are essential. Your "chain" can be broken if you run into a Pokemon other than the one you're hunting.  Always try to find a patch of grass that is at least 5vs5.  Make sure all your transportation devices have been put away. Do not skate or cycle through the grass.  When you use the PokeRadar, you'll see patches of grass shake. Take note of whether it is a gentle gyration or something more vigorous.  When you find the Pokemon you're attempting to chain, knock it out and be sure to walk into patches that reverberate the same way as the swathe of green that surrendered the initial Pokemon.  Only enter patches that are at least 4 spaces horizontally or vertically from you.  Remember to reset your PokeRadar if you KO a Pokemon on the edge of your chosen field.  Don't get overambitious. You only need to succeed at getting a chain of 40. After that, you just have to reset your PokeRadar till you discover a shiny patch - pleasant sounds will indicate its manifestation.  Make you sure you can actually catch the shiny when you find it. I recommend not being a miser with the Pokeballs.   If landbound Pokemon don't float your boat, you can opt out and go fish instead. Performing a fishing chain is questionably easier. Once you've succeeded in getting the fisherman from Route 16 to divulge that rare Pokemon can be acquired through consecutive fishing, you can be on your way. What you have to do then is ensure that you do not move from your fishing spot as any superfluous motion will break your streak. Pulling the rod too early or failing to get a nibble will also destroy your chances. Needless to say, having a Pokemon with Suction Cups as your lead Pokemon is a good idea. Confused? Here's a helpful video:    Carry a four-leaf clover  In real life. Not in the game. In real life. While you're at it, you may also want to solicit the services of a Maneki Neko, get a rabbit to donate a foot and attempt prayer. Because having Lady Luck smile on you is the only other way you're going to get those shiny Pokemon, folks!  (Don't hurt me.)  This article may contain links to online retail stores.  If you click on one and buy the product we may receive a small commission.  For more information, go here .      Jump to comments                 Related Tags    gamefreak  howto  Nintendo  Pokemon  Pokemon X  Pokemon Y  shiny  The Pokemon Company       Reactions 11       Do not want  0      Fanboy  2      Fantastic  7      I was amused  1      Interesting  0      Meh  0      Surprised!  1      Want  0      Sign in to react      Comments 21        Sign in to post a comment.    Username     Password     Sign in   Got a Eurogamer account? Your details will work here too!       Need an account?   Create an account. They're free!   Forgotten your login details?   Recover your account here.     Order   Newest  Oldest  Best  Worst         #1  LunarKnite  4 years ago     Discovered the consecutive fishy for shinies a few days ago on GameFAQS. Tried it out and got to a streak of 58 without getting a shiny before I messed up. T_T  Haven't gathered the patience to try past 20 since, but I shall get my first shiny someday...   Sign in to Reply       #2  Giever  4 years ago     "Show the world you're the one true Pokemon Master than with a team of shiny Pokemon."  There's a typo here after 'Pokemon Master'. I think you should want to drop the 'than' (presumably a remnant from some different phrasing of the sentence).   Sign in to Reply       #3  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @Giever THIS IS WHY YOU SHOULD NEVER EDIT HALF-ASLEEP. (Thanks! Fixed that.)   Sign in to Reply       #4  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @LunarKnite The Masuda Method sounds like it may be more tolerable. At least, it's something that won't make you actively hate yourself a lot. :C   Sign in to Reply       #5  LunarKnite  4 years ago     @cassandrakhaw Tried it again and got to 51 before accidentally pressing the button too fast. Still no shiny. You may be right, but at least this way is more interactive than running around to hatch eggs.   Sign in to Reply       #6  strongbadsings  4 years ago     I remember after clearing nearly all of Diamond, I decided to delve into Shiny hunting and EV training...  Until I found out exactly what it involved. Who has the time for this kind of stuff? Kudos to those who manage to do all this, but still... geez.   Sign in to Reply       #7  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @joshnickerson o_o Forget THAT, I want to know how and why people took the time to find these things /and/ verify the science of it works.   Sign in to Reply       #8  edsonlb  4 years ago     www.poketracer.com may help!   Sign in to Reply       #9  jack1388  4 years ago     Used the encounter power and the Pokemon with suction cups...and my fourth try with the chain fishing, on battle number 13 & 22, I got a shiney horsea and skrelp (respectively)   Sign in to Reply       #10  kyletolbert36  4 years ago     I caught a shiny dragalge after 13 casts! I've spent over 300 hours trying the Masuda method and it kind of upsets me that I got a shiny that fast fishing. But I am not complaining, considering this is my first shiny (excluding the red gyarados) also I did have an inkay in my party. Maybe you could post some good fishing spots you know of? Edited December 2013 by kyletolbert36   Sign in to Reply       #11  tammyireland40  4 years ago     best chaining spots?   Sign in to Reply       #12  zencharm  4 years ago     Masuda Method is my favorite. I got a Shiny Phantump from an egg on my first try.   Sign in to Reply       #13  soullessunitato  4 years ago     I'm really loving the shinies in X and Y. This is legitimately the only Pokemon game where I actually managed to get shinies on my own. I have 5, 2 of them are in Black, 1 from the GTS (Charizard) and 1 from a trade with an old internet friend of mine (Alakazam). The other 3 are in X. I have a shiny Octillery from chain fishing, an Umbreon from Masuda Method, and a Kirlia from Wonder Trade.  I'd say my favorite is Masuda, because you don't have to focus so much on it, you can kind of zone out while you're hatching eggs, listen to music, watch TV, even play another game, because you only need to focus once the eggs start to hatch. The amount of eggs depends, but I got my Eevee on egg #260, which is considerably long for Masuda, actually. Most people I heard of got under 100. But I can say the increased odds do help, I tried in Black, I got like 300 eggs hatched and nothing, but I got something in X, so yaaaaaaay. :p  Now, chainfishing is cool too. This is the thing, is that the shinies never come when you expect them. I had just been derping around with my rod in Azure Bay when I found a shiny Remoraid. I had a chain of 10-30 and I was kind of shocked. One of my friends actually got a Luvdisc from chaining yesterday, and he only had a chain of 2! I'm not certain of the exact figures, but my guess is that that's practically the same odds as a random encounter. There was also that one from Wonder Trade, too. That was just a good luck day for me, I was in Wonder Trade at the right time and got matched with the right person. I had just hatched shiny Eevee the day before and I was clearing out my boxes and BAM! Shiny Ralts. I'm gonna have to Masuda Breed more often. I've never gotten a shiny from chains or RAs before. I have this possible bug with my game where after I KO a Pokemon in a chain sometimes, the radar music just stops and the regular route music plays, breaking my chain for ABSOLUTELY NO REASON. I don't do anything, I SWEAR it's my game glitching. Because of that bug, I don't chain in grass much. And random enounters... you don't even know how bad my luck is with RNGS, do you!? Hehe. Well, maybe my luck is looking up. I mean, I just got 3 shinies in 1 month, 2 in 2 days! All these people are saying finding shinies is too easy now. Listen, now the odds of shinies are high enough to be rare, but low enough for me to actually get some of the love as well. I'm working on more Masuda Breeding (for Vulpix this time), and it's really not that stressful, so when in doubt, hatch eggs! Then Wonder Trade them for more shinies!! :p   Sign in to Reply       #14  Phosphoradapokemonsu  3 years ago     Dont  ask me how, but I got a shiny clauncher in 2 tries for the chain fishing option. I was at the top left area of cyllage city in one of the glittery spots near the rocks. I think I used an old rod and the clauncher is now up for trade my trainer is Phosphora (duh) if you want it my friend code is 2062 - 9640 - 0606  <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><> YOU get a ride in the TARDIS, YOU get a ride in the TARDIS, EVERYONE GETS A RIDE IN THE TARDIS! Edited July 2014 by Phosphoradapokemonsu   Sign in to Reply       #15  Phosphoradapokemonsu  3 years ago     @tammyireland40 let us see, the purple flower patch in route 5, the giant yellow patch in Pokemon Village and other big patches of tall grass are good for the PokeRadar and small, rocky and unnoticeable places where there are sparkly tiles are good for chain fishing. I got a shiny clauncher at cyllage city in the rocky part of the top left area.   Sign in to Reply       #16  NDsnivy  3 years ago     @zencharm  So you like hatching eggs...  You must be very luck or something, because I've been trying for a shiny piplup recently. 845 eggs and counting, still no shinys.  ...and that's just on Piplup. If you count ALL of the eggs, then you're looking at around 3,000. XD  Well, I guess winning shinys from drawing contests will have to do...  ... for now.   Sign in to Reply       #17  karaleesears14  3 years ago     @Phosphoradapokemonsu mine is 4914-4582-8530 under either Kara or Karalee if you wanna add me... ^^   Sign in to Reply       #18  ethanswinehart79  2 years ago     @Giever Grammar police....   Sign in to Reply       #19  Hopley865  5 months ago     account easily. You will be needing an Apple ituneslogin.co bank card info. The technique is extremely   Sign in to Reply       #20  Sarah445  3 months ago     About the video clips you are viewing it could LiveNetTV streaming application is simply outstanding offering.   Sign in to Reply       #21  biharboard-ac-in  A month ago     mobro apk is a simple tool enabling videos and other interesting features   Sign in to Reply         More from USgamer        Hacking Pokemon X & Y: Now With 100% Chance of Shiny Pokemon?   As all the next-gen hullabaloo dies away, we check out what the Pokemon X and Y hacking community has been doing with Game Freak's baby.   By Cassandra Khaw     7  3              A New Breakthrough with Pokemon X/Y Hacking   We now know what Generation VI Pokemon's digital DNA look like. Yeah, science!   By Cassandra Khaw     2               Overwatch Retribution Event Guide - Uprising Start and End Dates, Overwatch Archives Details, New Loot Box Items, Retribution Content   The Overwatch Uprising event is back for 2018, under the new umbrella of the Overwatch Archives: Retribution heading.    By Hirun Cryer                   GTA 6 Rumors - GTA 6 Release Date, Is GTA 6 Returning to Vice City? Lead Character in GTA 6 - Everything we Know   GTA 6 could be merely a few years away, according to a new report, and it could feature a female lead for the first time in the series. This is a complete round-up of GTA 6 rumors, including info on the GTA 6 release date.    By Hirun Cryer                                         Covering the best in video gaming. News, previews and reviews of the latest Xbox One, PS4, PC, and Switch games. Plus features about classic retro consoles!  This site © 2018 Gamer Network.  All Rights Reserved. No part of this site or its content may be reproduced without the permission of the copyright holder.    Explore    News    Reviews    Guides    Analysis    Opinion    Features    Deals    RPG Podcast      Helpful links    Contact us    Latest comments    Staff    Tags    How we work    Review policy    Code of conduct    Terms and Conditions      Gamer Network   Eurogamer  Gamer's Edition  Jelly Deals  GamesIndustry  GamesIndustry Japan  Metabomb  NintendoLife  Push Square  Rock, Paper, Shotgun  USgamer  VG247     Follow us   Facebook  Twitter  Twitch  Youtube  RSS       Comments  Close        Read this article      Sign in to join the discussion or register for an account    Go, go, go!      Order   Newest  Oldest  Best  Worst                                                                                                                                                                   Subscribe         Search                Tech  Science  Games  Movies  Television  Comics  Anime  Culture  Deals        Can a Sex Robot Save Your Relationship? The Internet Is Toxic – Here Are Five Possible Cures Geek Deals: Dell XPS 8910 Quad-Core Desktop PC for $670 Facebook to Notify Users Affected by Cambridge Analytica Breach  More      Forget April Showers: This Month Brings Rare 'Jupiter Triangle' Simple Math Trick Helps Scientists Predict Climate Change Buzz Aldrin STILL Didn't See an Alien Ship in Space Japanese Snow Monkeys Love Hot Baths Just Like People Do  More      Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered 2 Rumored for Release in Late April Geek Plays: Yakuza 6 Batman is Now Telltale’s Best Franchise A Lot of Really Silly People Want Fortnite Banned  More      The History Of The Infinity Stones MCU News: The Russos Tease Bucky Fans, Brie Larson Lifts & More DC Movie News: What's Going On with Flashpoint, Deathstroke & New Gods MCU News: Latest Infinity War Rumors, and a Look at the Future  More      Legends of Tomorrow Brings it All Together for a Giant, Joyful Finale Character Moments and a Tense Ending are the Saviors of Once Upon a Time Let Geek Tell You What to Watch This Weekend Gotham Takes Just a Bit Too Long to Get Where It's Going  More      Stupid, Sexy Nightwing (Kotobukiya’s Ikemen Nightwing) Wailing Blade is the Executioner Sci-Fi Fantasy You Didn't Know You Needed Grief is a Graphic Novel Full of Magic and Compassion Buy This Comic: Isola #1  More      The Butt Detective Will Make A Stink About Any Mystery One Punch Man's Saitama Reacts to Merch of Himself Cosplay Gallery: Anime Boston 2018 New Attack On Titan: Lost Girls Trailer Dials Up The Action  More      Legoland Japan's Cherry Blossom Tree Is Nearly As Pretty As A Real One The Wacky Adventures of Ronald McDonald is a Fast Food Infinity War This Japanese Candy Factory Plays a Chorus of Kids Saying "Thank You" Reserve Your Spot at an All-Inclusive Space Hotel—for $9.5M  More      T-Shirt Tuesday: The Best Giant Monster Shirts Amazon Daily Deals: Insane Final Fantasy Art Book Geek Deals Roundup: $500 Ultrasharp 27-inch 4K Monitor with $200 gift ca... Geek Deals Roundup: Alienware GTX 1080 Gaming PC for $1,630, Save $200 o...  More                       Games    Pokémon X and Y: How to catch a shiny Pokémon   By James Plafke  10.18.2013 :: 4:05PM EDT  10.18.2013   @jplafke     This site may earn affiliate commissions from the links on this page. Terms of use .           The most elusive and desirable prize throughout the Pokémon series has always been a shiny version of your favorite pocket monster. Concerning Pokémon X and Y , rumors have been circulating that the shiny encounter rate has been adjusted to be more friendly. There are also a handful of strategies believed to increase your chances of running into a shiny, and one of them is as easy as pressing a button.  Tipping NPCs  Throughout the game, you’ll be offered the option to tip NPCs either $100, $500, or $1000. Many gamers around the internet are claiming that they ran into a shiny shortly after tipping an NPC $1000. The only shiny I have ever encountered in the wild throughout the series is a shiny Oddish, and I happened to run into it just after tipping the photographer outside of Parfum Palace.  After testing the theory at length after that shiny encounter, I have not run into another shiny as of yet. So, take the rumor with a grain of salt.   Masuda Method  Named after Game Freak producer Junichi Masuda, this method was programmed into the series beginning in Generation IV, Pokémon Diamond and Pearl . The normal rate to encounter a shiny in the wild or through breeding is 1/8192, or about a 0.01% chance. Using the Masuda Method, though, increases the probability. In Diamond and Pearl , the rate is multiplied by five, or about 1/1638. In Generation V — Black and White — the chance is multiplied by six, which is 1/1365. Though still quite low, both chances are much preferred to 1/8192.  The Masuda Method is simple enough to pull off, it just happens to be extraordinarily tedious. If two Pokémon of differing geographical regions are bred together (such as one from America and one from Japan), the more favorable Masuda percentage is applied to the resulting egg. Simple as that. The reason why this method is tedious is because breeding is tedious, as you have to continually mindlessly walk a ton of steps to hatch each egg. Granted, an increased shiny hatch rate is much more desirable to a 0.01% chance for a shiny encounter.  Poké Radar chaining  The Poké Radar is back in Pokémon X and Y ; you can obtain it from Professor Sycamore’s lab on the second floor after you beat the Elite Four. In previous iterations of the franchise, you could “chain” Pokémon using the radar, and if done correctly, you can detect shiny Pokémon in the grass. The method is tedious, but one of the only reliable ways to obtain a shiny critter. Poké Radar chaining has not yet been officially confirmed (normally via hackers looking over the games’ code) as a working method in the newest installments, but gamers have been reporting that it does work, seen in the video below.   The actual process is easy enough — you just activate the Poké Radar and tediously walk around until you see a glittering grass patch, as shown above. However, there are a ton of different little rules that apply to that walking around. In short, you create a chain by running into the same Pokémon over and over again. Each time you run into that very same Pokémon (for instance, you keep running into Oddish), your chain increases. When your chain increases, your chance to run into a shiny version of the chained Pokémon increases. The cap has always been set at 40, which increases your chance to run into a shiny from 0.01% to 0.5%.   When you use the Poké Radar, you’ll see various patches of grass shake, as demonstrated in the above video. To keep the chain going, you have to walk into a new patch of grass that shakes the same way your previous patch of grass shook. Another important part of chaining Pokémon involves using Repel items to ward off normal wild Pokémon. If you run into one of those, your chain is broken. Other weird actions also break the chain, such as moving into the patch of grass above (it appears behind, due to the perspective) your character’s head, or moving into a patch of grass that forms a corner (two edges of the patch do not touch other grass tiles).  Radar chaining is insanely in-depth, and if you’re going to try the practice, you can check out an equally in-depth guide over here .  Catching your shiny Pokémon  Other than the above three methods, there are so far no other discovered ways to increase the chances of catching a shiny Pokémon. The more players spend time with the game, the more likely it is that a new method will be discovered. However, shiny Pokémon are meant to be insanely rare, so don’t bet that Game Freak will have made obtaining one (not counting event giveaways ) something other than a chore.     Share  Facebook   Twitter   Linkedin   Pinterest   Reddit       Game Freak Nintendo Nintendo 2DS Nintendo 3DS Pokemon Pokemon X Pokemon Y shiny               Speak Your Mind           More in Games     04.09.2018 :: 3:45PM EDT :: Tony Polanco      Games    Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered 2 Rumored for Release in Late April      Games        04.09.2018 :: 11:00AM EDT :: Jordan Minor      Games    Geek Plays: Yakuza 6      Games        04.06.2018 :: 9:00AM EDT :: Jordan Minor      Games    Batman is Now Telltale’s Best Franchise      Games        04.05.2018 :: 12:45PM EDT :: Tony Polanco      Games    A Lot of Really Silly People Want Fortnite Banned      Games        04.05.2018 :: 9:00AM EDT :: K. Thor Jensen      Games    11 Video Games That Should Add A Battle Royale Mode      Games       More          This site may earn affiliate commissions from the links on this page. Terms of use .      subscribe to our newsletter:      This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time.                        The History Of The Infinity Stones     Movies               04.10.2018 :: 12:45PM EDT  Legends of Tomorrow Brings it All Together for a Giant, Joyful Finale      Television            04.10.2018 :: 11:00AM EDT  Can a Sex Robot Save Your Relationship?      Tech            04.10.2018 :: 10:00AM EDT  T-Shirt Tuesday: The Best Giant Monster Shirts      Deals       More                           Facebook  Twitter    About  Contact  Newsletters  Archive  Glossary  Advertise    More From Ziff Davis:  PCMag  Computer Shopper  ExtremeTech  AskMen  Everyday Health  IGN  Offers.com  Speedtest.net  TechBargains  Toolbox  What to Expect    Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Advertise  Accessibility Statement       © 1996-2018 Ziff Davis, LLC. PCMag Digital Group Geek.com is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.              We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here .   ×                 Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances to find a wild shiny Pokémon in XY & ORAS?           up vote  5  down vote  favorite  1      I've been seeing people getting millions of shiny Pokémon in X & Y without effort. My first shiny on Pokémon X (Corsola) also took only 93 fishing encounters.  I'm wondering: is the chance of finding a shiny in Pokémon X & Y better than it used to be?  If so, what is the chance to find a wild shiny in X & Y ? How does it compare to the previous games in the series)?    pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation     share | improve this question      edited Sep 9 '15 at 7:40       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Nov 30 '13 at 0:53       ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay   48 1 1 4              add a comment |           4 Answers 4     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      The chance of getting a shiny has indeed improved. It has doubled. This is further increased by chain fishing, getting multiple Pokemon in a row without moving or getting the "Not even a nibble" message. Poke radar works much the same to improve the odds, and the Masuda Method of breeding further increases these odds.  The Masuda Method means you take a foreign Pokemon and breed it with one from your region. For example, say you wonder trade and get a Japanese Pikachu. Breed that with a Pikachu you caught and you have a better chance of a shiny than if you breed two Pikachu that you caught.  This chance is increased further in the Friend Safari. In the Friend Safari, you are eight times more likely to find a shiny than the rest of the game. However, the shiny charm does not affect this.     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 27 '14 at 13:59             answered Nov 30 '13 at 1:08       LLF   1,000 6 16                  @BenBrocka Thank you. I don't know how I got halved there. Might be that at first I thought that it in fact hadn't changed, before I double checked. – LLF  Nov 30 '13 at 1:17            Thanks i got a japenese ditto so i can Masuda Method anything. – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 6 '13 at 21:05             Same here. Easiest way to do it, though you get eggs faster if they're the same species. – LLF  Dec 7 '13 at 21:58            Now I need to get a japenese Charmander – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 8 '13 at 16:38        3      @ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay You wouldn't want to breed a Japanese Ditto with a Japanese Charmander. Having them both from the same region would cancel out the effect of the Masuda Method. If you have a Japanese Ditto, use it with everything that IS NOT from Japan. The 2 pokemon have to be from different regions for the Masuda Method to work correctly. – C-dizzle  Dec 20 '13 at 14:47        |  show 3 more comments             up vote  5  down vote      The chances of getting a shiny are doubled in normal gameplay from 1/8192 to 1/4096. There are also many new ways to encounter shinies while retaining the old methods. The masuda method is probably the second easiest next to chain fishing. I'll discuss all the ways of catching shinies.  1:Pokeradar. The pokeradar has once again made a return to pokemon games and it is simple. you charge it by walking and you go into the patches of grass that are the same. You start a chain if you keep getting the same pokemon over and over again. you continue the chain by either capturing it or fainting it. If you run away, get a different pokemon, turn on your rollerblades, basically do anything other than encounter the previous pokemon---the chain breaks. however, if you get to 40 chains the chances rise to 1/200 and you can keep reseting the pokeradar until you get a shiny patch.  2:Horde. This is a very popular new way of getting shinies. All you do basically do is get a pokemon with sweet scent or if you have honey and keep getting hordes over and over again until you get a shiny.  3:Matsuda Method: Its basically what everyone said, you simply breed 2 pokemon from different regions and you hope for the best. O-powers and having a pokemon with flame body helps this method. This is ideal if you want to control its nature or iv's  4:Chain Fishing. This is also a new way of getting shinies and definitely the easiest. It's basically like pokeradar except that it takes a bit of skill. you have to consecutively reel in pokemon for a chain. the things that break this chain is missing a hook(like basically throwing in a rod but not getting a pokemon either b/c of mistake or simply didn't get a nibble), using wrong key item, moving, or opening any kind of menu. to address the not getting a nibble problem, I strongly suggest getting either a Inkay or Octillery with suction cups that ensures a nibble. I also reccomned not fishing from the shore and also fishing near rocks or anywhere that is closed off. This is the easiest b/c after only 40 chains, the chances go up to 1/200 and stays that way until you break the chain. Don't let this mislead you though b/c it is actually very hard to keep getting every bite. It also took me about 16 tries just to get to 40 and took me to 106 chains before I got my shiny Dragalge. I got my second one at around 167. The things that don't break the chain is running away, capturing it, and fainting it.  5:Friend Safari. The final and last way is very easy but very time consuming. all you basically do is just run around, derping until you get a shiny. This is good for competitive battling as friend safari usually gives the hidden abilities and good natures. It does have an increased shiny rate from the get-go. as soon as you go into one, the chances of getting a shiny goes up to 1/2000.  Hoped this helped you guys! ;)     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 27 '13 at 4:15       Pokemon-helper   51 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      No one really knows whether the rate has increased or not. But by looking at the amount of shinies which has entered the game, through methods such as the Masuda Method and chain ishing, it's more than likely that once again, GameFreak has improved the chance of getting a shiny pokemon from Generation 5 to 6, as they did from Generation 4 to 5 (Masuda Method).  There also seems to be a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon in friend safaris. No statistic has been confirmed yet, however.     share | improve this answer     answered Nov 30 '13 at 12:00       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36              add a comment |             up vote  -2  down vote      the chances go up when you are hatching the eggs but in the wild it is said the chances are now 2,192 for encountering a shiny pokemon. these are just rumors though but i have 2 shiny that were given to me and i have not encountered a shiny by myself. they were all given to me.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 4 '13 at 20:28       somebody   9              1      What source do you have that the shiny rate is increased in the wild? – Frank  Dec 4 '13 at 20:43        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Jan 19 '14 at 2:50   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 4 months ago      viewed     67,809 times       active    2 years, 7 months ago          Linked     -3   Pokemon shiny hunting      Related   2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Is there a specific chance of hatching a shiny in X and Y using the Masuda Method? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 5 If you catch a Pokémon does your chances of meeting it in the wild increase? 0 Are there really small secret methods of raising one's chance of encountering a shiny? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 14 Can PokéTransporter make a Pokémon shiny? 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking? 3 How exactly does Hatching Power reduce hatch time? 0 Would resetting Trainer ID help in terms of shiny chances?      Hot Network Questions     Sort spelled-out serial numbers    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    Is this a field?    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    I have a crush on a coworker but won't act on it, how can I tell my boyfriend about it and that I'll remain faithful?    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    Why use baking powder instead of yeast?    Best way to use emplace_back to avoid move constructor call?    What am I talking about here?    Best use of phoenixes in battle    When is `_` an environment variable of a bash shell?    For n nodes that are connected to at most m and at least 2 other nodes, what values of n and m always allow the connections to not intersect?    Does backing up a database shrink the transaction log size?    The supply and demand of Virtual Products    How to make a Tree diagram using images as vertices, that goes left to right    When is a function in a standard library module called a built-in function?    Stat block from Animate Dead    Is there a way to avoid the recurring cost of microbes, when composting at home?    What to do about a colleague playing pranks on a manager?    How to reward students for learning from mistakes without penalizing those who didn't make mistakes in the first place?    Finding probability -picking at least one red, one blue and one green ball from an urn when six balls are selected    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    Evil Campaigns:How to explain the difference between being evil and being a jerk?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                                   FANDOM           Games  Movies  TV    Wikis      Explore Wikis   Community Central   FANDOM University                        My Account       Sign In    Don't have an account?  Register        Start a Wiki                           Advertisement                     Pokémon Wiki    15,062  Pages      Add new page           Pokémon         Gen I       Bulbasaur    Charmander    Squirtle    Pikachu    Eevee    Mew    Mewtwo        Gen II       Chikorita    Cyndaquil    Totodile    Pichu    Ho-Oh    Lugia    Celebi        Gen III       Treecko    Torchic    Mudkip    Plusle    Minun    Groudon    Kyogre    Rayquaza        Gen IV       Turtwig    Chimchar    Piplup    Pachirisu    Dialga    Palkia    Giratina        Gen V       Snivy    Tepig    Oshawott    Emolga    Reshiram    Zekrom    Kyurem        Gen VI       Chespin    Fennekin    Froakie    Dedenne    Xerneas    Yveltal    Zygarde        Gen VII       Rowlet    Litten    Popplio    Togedemaru    Cosmog    Cosmoem    Solgaleo    Lunala              Games         Main series       Sun and Moon    Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire    X and Y    Black 2 and White 2    Black and White    HeartGold and SoulSilver        Mystery Dungeon       Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team    Explorers of Time & Explorers of Darkness    Explorers of Sky    Gates to Infinity    Super Mystery Dungeon        Ranger       Pokémon Ranger    Shadows of Almia    Guardian Signs        Other       Pokémon Rumble Blast    PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond    Pokémon Conquest        Characters       Playable Characters    Gym Leaders    Elite Four    Champions    Villains        Walkthroughs       Red and Blue    Yellow    Ruby and Sapphire    Diamond and Pearl    Platinum    HeartGold and SoulSilver              Anime         Series       The Beginning, Gold and Silver    Ruby and Sapphire    Diamond and Pearl    Black and White    XY    Sun & Moon        Episodes       Episode Guide    Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon - Ultra Adventures    Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon    Pokémon the Series: XYZ    Pokémon the Series: XY Kalos Quest        Movies       Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel    Hoopa and the Clash of Ages    Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction        Characters       Ash    Brock    Misty    Serena    Clemont    Bonnie    May    Max    Dawn    Iris        Pokémon       Ash's Pikachu    Clemont's Chespin    Serena's Braixen    Ash's Frogadier    Jessie's Pumpkaboo    James' Inkay    Meowth              Other        Main page     Manga       Pokémon Manga    Pokémon Adventures    Characters    Locations        Administrators       Energy X    Lordranged7    ThePokémonGamer    Yoponot       Project Pages     Forums       Help desk    Watercooler    Role play        Policies       Trivia    User pages    Naming conventions    Neutral point of view    Redirects              Explore       Wiki Activity    Random page    Community    Videos    Images           Discuss               in:   Pokémon    Shiny Pokémon        English      Español           Edit          History    Talk (8)         Share                Ethan encounters a Shiny Charizard .    Shiny Pokémon (ポケモンの光る Pokemon no Hikaru ) are Pokémon with different coloration than the normal versions of the Pokémon although they have no stat differences at all. Shiny Pokémon have been included since Generation II in Gold and Silver in which the first shiny Pokémon that was introduced was a Red Gyarados . Shiny Pokémon are considered very rare. The term "shiny" is a reference to their difference in color and their sparkling animation and sound effect when they enter into battle. The term was unofficial prior to Generation V , when the Pokédex began cataloging shiny Pokémon and using the term itself.  Contents [ show ]  Comparison  The color change can be anywhere from very noticeable, e.g. Charizard :    Normal Charizard Shiny Charizard  Other shiny Pokémon are very similar to their normal versions, such as Clefable .    Normal Clefable Shiny Clefable  Encountering  In Generation II, a Pokémon randomly assigned 5 integers between 0 and 15 to determine their base stats. (HP, Attack, Defense, Special, and Speed). If all 5 numbers are equal to 10, the Pokémon's color scheme will be set to 0. The chance of seeing a shiny Pokémon is 1 in every 8192, or a probability of 0.0001220703% during each encounter. From Generation III onwards, shiny Pokémon are determined by other factors such as the Trainer ID number and the personality value of the Pokémon. Despite this change, the odds of randomly encountering a shiny Pokémon is still 1 in 8192. As of Pokémon Black 2 and Pokémon White 2 , the Shiny Charm can be obtained to significantly increase chances of encountering a shiny Pokémon. This stacks with most methods listed below.  Shiny Locked  In every generation, there are some Pokémon that can't be legally Shiny, Starting for Generation V , there is a coding in the games that prevent certain Pokémon from being found in the Shiny form in the wild though legitimate ways, they are always Legendary , Mythical and other event Pokémon, they are:   Generation II  Mew    Generation III   Celebi   Jirachi    Generation IV   Celebi   Arceus  Spiky-eared Pichu    Generation V   Celebi   Victini   Reshiram   Zekrom   Kyurem   Keldeo   Meloetta     Generation VI   Celebi   Victini   Keldeo   Meloetta   Zygarde   Hoopa   Volcanion  Cosplay Pikachu    Generation VII   Victini   Keldeo   Meloetta   Zygarde   Hoopa   Volcanion   Tapu Lele   Tapu Bulu   Tapu Fini   Cosmog   Cosmoem   Solgaleo   Lunala   Magearna   Marshadow   Zeraora  Cap Pikachu   Methods  There are a few different methods to increase the chances of obtaining a shiny Pokémon.  Chaining (Gen IV)  This method uses the Pokéradar in Diamond, Pearl , Platinum , X and Y to encounter chains of the same Pokémon. Here's a few tips (Non-Gen VI):  If the bush just shakes, it is a Sinnoh  Pokémon . If the bush has a whitish shake, it might be a non-native Pokémon. Never use it in water, caves, or tall grass. The bush with the same type of shake as the first Pokémon one has battled that is the farthest away within a four by four grid is most likely the same Pokémon. The likelihood of finding a shiny Pokémon increases as the chain increases, maxing out at 40. Pulsing, sparkling grass indicates a Shiny Pokémon is in that bush.  For the Gen VI games, specifically ORAS, chaining has been made much easier thanks to the DexNav application on the PokéNav+. Using the DexNav function, players can see which Pokémon is in a patch of grass without having to risk encountering it. Likewise, scaring off a Pokémon using the DexNav (i.e. failing to sneak up on it) does not break the chain.  Masuda Method (Gen IV)  To use this method one must breed two Pokémon from games in different languages. Using this method improves the odds of hatching a shiny Pokémon from 1/8192 to 1/2048 or 1/1365.3, in Generation IV or Generation V , respectively. This method was the brainchild of Junichi Masuda , director of GameFreak.  Soft Reset (Gen. II to Gen. VII)  One method which is easy enough (but often very time consuming) works for starter Pokémon and most Legendary Pokémon . Basically, the method is to stand in front of the legendary Pokémon the player character will catch or the starter Pokémon they will take and save. If one doesn't get a shiny Pokémon when getting the starter Pokémon or battle the legendary Pokémon, soft reset the game by pressing A+B+Start+Select on the GBA, L+R+Start+Select on the DS and L+R+Start on the 3DS. This method can often require over 1000 resets before getting a shiny Pokémon.  In-Game Shiny Pokémon  In-game shiny Pokémon are met as part of the main story in some Pokémon games. For example, the Red Gyarados appears in Gold, Silver, Crystal , HeartGold and SoulSilver, as part of a story arc, and can be caught in a way similar to most legendary Pokémon. In FireRed and LeafGreen , a Trainer with a Shiny Espeon can be battled inside the Trainer Tower on one of the Sevii Islands . There is also another trainer with a shiny Meowth. In Black and White 2 , the player can catch a Shiny Haxorus in the post-story. The player can also receive a Shiny Gible in Black 2 and a Shiny Dratini in White 2. In Sun and Moon and Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon , after becoming the Champion, a man in the Seafolk Village Pokémon Center will battle the player character with his shiny Exeggcute .  Anime  Jigglypuff It was in fact a shiny version of a Jigglypuff in reference to the colors of the shiny version of this Pokémon. Noctowl : Ash caught one while on his travels through Johto . It also seems to be about half the size of other Noctowls. Shuckle : While in Johto, Ash and co. discovered a Shiny Shuckle . Gyarados : First seen in the Lake of Rage and was caught by Lance . It was also seen again during the battle between Kyogre and Groudon . Lysandre also owns one but it died with him when he was killed by Zygarde's Core Enforcer. Magneton : Owned by Pokémon Trainer  Jackson when he battles Ash in the Silver Conference. Swellow : Winona , the Fortree City Gym Leader has a Shiny Swellow . Donphan : A Shiny Donphan has been shown in the Hoenn Region on Dontoe Island. Magikarp : Was seen briefly in the episode "Judgement Day" and "Going for the Gold!". Dustox : Jessie's Dustox fell in love with a male Shiny Dustox and then was released similar to how Ash released his Butterfree . (Except Jessie smashed Dustox 's Poké Ball so it could go with its true love) Shiny Metagross : In the episode "Noodles! Roamin' Off", James in Team Rocket went out to see this strangely colored Metagross that people had been talking about, and was promptly attacked by the shiny Metagross. Another Shiny Metagross is owned by the Hoenn Elite Champion, Steven . Pichu : A Shiny Pichu appeared in the fourth ending of the Diamond and Pearl series: Get Fired Up, Spiky-eared Pichu! . Ditto : A shiny Ditto appeared in "Dealing With Fierce Double Ditto Drama" under Narissa 's ownership. Ariados : In the Special Episode "Dawn's New Journey", Dawn and Cinco encountered a swarm of Ariados as well as a shiny one using Psychic so the others could wrap Dawn and the others with String Shot. Entei , Raikou , and Suicune : the three legendary beasts were shiny guardians of the city in the Pokémon Movie: Zoroark: Master of Illusions  Hydreigon : Owned by Carlita in White, Victini, and Reshiram. It is used in the tournament In that movie. Golurk : Owned by Carlita in White: Victini and Zekrom . It was used to guard Juanita's trailer that contained Victini dolls and candy. Onix : The Pokémon was seen near the end in, "Expedition to Onix Island" after Meloetta uses her song to calm down the other attacking Onix. It seemed to have been the leader of the Onix. Red Genesect : This Shiny Legendary Pokémon is the leader of the Genesect Army in, MS016: Pokémon The Movie - Genesect and the Legend Awakened . Hawlucha : Owned by Carl in "When Light and Dark Collide!" Rayquaza : A Shiny Legendary Pokémon that can Mega Evolve in MS018: Pokémon The Movie - Hoopa and the Clash of Ages . Dragonair : Owned by Amelia . Phantump : Leader of a group of wild Phantump in XY117 . Pikachu : This Shiny Pikachu appeared at the end of XY117 during the Poké TV segment that focused on Shiny Pokémon. Gengar : Owned by Jarvis in MS019 . Gardevoir : Owned by Chymia in MS019 . Charjabug : Owned by Hayate in SM041 .  There are a few alternate-colored Pokémon that do not appear this way in the games. These are:   Pink Butterfree : First appeared in IL021.  Valencia Island Pokemon: Many Pokemon that appeared in OI003 had alternate colorings such as Raticate , Vileplume , Butterfree , Weepinbell , Paras , Nidoran ♂  and Nidoran♀ . Diamond/Crystal Onix: An Onix made entirely of crystal appeared in OI007 . Pink Pokemon: Many Pink Pokemon appeared in OI008 . Some of the included Caterpie , Weedle , Pidgey , Rattata , Vileplume , Paras , Parasect , Nidoran ♂ , Nidoran ♀ , Nidoking , Venonat , Diglett , Mankey , Primeape , Bellsprout , Dodrio , Exeggutor , Rhyhorn & Rhydon . Imaginary Pink Pokemon: In the same episode as the debut as Pink Pokemon, Team Rocket had a fantasy where there were more Pink Pokemon not officially revealed. These include Pidgeotto, Poliwhirl, Geodude, Oddish , Electabuzz , Arbok , Weezing & Scyther . Ash's Lapras's Mother: It is revealed in OI033 that Ash's Lapras has a mother and that she is a slightly lighter color than normal Lapras . Snorlax Snowmen: A few Snorlax in PK009 are just like normal Snorlax except they have more of a light-blue to their fur and normally specialize in Ice -type moves like Blizzard . Reddy: A purple-skinned Kecleon known as Reddy appeared in JE089 .  Pink Rhyhorn Pink Nidoking Reddy Pink Primeape, Caterpie, Venonat & Weedle Pink versions of both Nidoran♀ and Nidoran ♂ Add a photo to this gallery  Trivia  In Generation II games, shiny Pokémon can be slightly stronger than their normal colored counterparts. However, this is not true for later generations. There are examples of Pokémon which, although colored differently, are not officially shiny, such as gender or form differences in regular coloring such as in Hippowdon, Jellicent, and Gastrodon. However, these are not shiny variants, but each gender or form will have its own shiny color that differs from the usual color for their gender or form. The first alternately colored Pokémon to appear in the anime series was seen by Ash in the first season when he released his Butterfree so it could find a mate. In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team , two Kecleon own a shop in the town square. One is a dark purple color. The Pokémon which reside in parts of the Orange Islands are colored differently to other Pokémon. The color changes are due to climate and natural adaption according to Professor Ivy . In the Anime, "In the Pink" was just that apparently, eating the berries there turned Pokémon pink. However, if the Pokémon stopped eating the berries, they would discontinue being pink. Ash's Pikachu was temporarily pink due to this. The term "Shiny Pokémon" was originally a fan name, however, it became so popular that it became the official name for differently colored Pokémon.  Gallery  ﻿ Ash's Noctowl Shiny Shuckle Lance's Gyarados Vincent's Magneton Winona's Swellow Shiny Donphan Austin's Dustox Shiny Metagross Ditto 2 Entei Raikou Suicune Shiny Onix Shiny Ariados Carlita's Hydreigon Juanita's Golurk Red Genesect Clair's Druddigon Shiny Magikarp Carl's Hawlucha Steven's Metagross Rayquaza Amelia's Dragonair Shiny Phantump Chymia's Mega Gardevoir Chymia's Mega Gardevoir Alva's Gengar Alva's Mega Gengar Lysandre's Gyarados Lysandre's Mega Gyarados Hayate's Charjabug Add a photo to this gallery    Retrieved from " http://pokemon.wikia.com/wiki/Shiny_Pok%C3%A9mon?oldid=1041637 "     Categories :    Pokémon           Languages:   Español                          Fan Feed      More Pokémon Wiki      1  Ash Ketchum      2  Evolutionary Stones      3  Starter Pokémon                    Explore Wikis       Chicago Fire Wiki         SoNyuhShiDae Wiki         Chicago PD Wiki                                   Games      Movies      TV      Explore Wikis       Follow Us                            Overview    About    Careers    Press    Contact    Wikia.org        Terms of Use    Privacy Policy    Global Sitemap    Local Sitemap      Community    Community Central    Support    Fan Contributor Program    WAM Score    Help      Can't find a community you love? Create your own and start something epic.    Start a wiki      The FANDOM App  Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat              Advertise    Media Kit    Contact        Pokémon Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. Content is available under CC-BY-SA .              TWD Negan     TWD Morgan     TWD Hilltop                                                          Menu  Skip to content  Ninten Pedia  Nintendo Forum  3DS Reviews   Nintendo 3DS Review  Nintendo 3DS XL Review  New 3DS XL Review    Best 3DS Games  Free eShop Cards  3DS / Wii U Game Reviews           How to get the Shiny Charm in Pokemon X/Y   Published on April 29th, 2014 by Gervais D.   This tutorial teaches you how to get the shiny charm in Pokemon X/Y and its uses.  What is the Shiny Charm?   The shiny charm is a key item in Pokemon X/Y that increases your chance of finding a shiny Pokemon in the wild (by 300%, so there’s a 1 in 2,730.6 chance of finding a shiny Pokemon in the wild). It was also said that if you’re using the Masuda Method for breeding, the chance of hatching a shiny Pokemonn increases from 1 in 1365.3 to 1 in 1024 .  How to get the Shiny Charm in Pokemon X/Y  It’s simple. You must catch/obtain all non-event Pokemon (the event Pokemon are listed below) from all generations (1 to 6). After, go to Lumiose City and use a taxi to travel to Professor Sycamore’s Lab. Find Professor Sycamore and talk to him to get the shiny charm.  List of event Pokemon :  Arceus Celebi Darkrai Deoxys Genesect Keldeo Manaphy Meloetta Mew Phione Shaymin Jirachi Victini  You’re also not required to have Diancie, Volcanion and Hoopa registered as caught in your PokeDex. Of course, some Pokemon are not available in the wild in Pokemon X/Y, therefore, PokeBank is required unless you go hunting in the Global Trade Station or add people to your 3DS friend list to trade over Wi-Fi.  Tip to get Pokemon for your Pokedex in seconds from the GTS :  Never, I repeat, never use the GTS’s search feature to look for the Pokemon that you need for your PokeDex. You’re going to find ridiculous offers such as a level 5 Pikachu up for trade for a level 100 Zapdos. To easily get the Pokemon that you’re looking for, breed rare Pokemon (such as Pokemon that cannot be caught in Kalos like Meowth or gen 5 starters) and put them up for trade in the GTS. Someone will trade with you in under a minute. This works well if you’re not looking for legendary Pokemon.         About Gervais D.  Gervais is a Nintendo fan who loves to play a good game. His first owned Nintendo console was the NES, and he currently owns a blue 3DS XL.       Post navigation  ← Sea Battle DSi Review  Nintendo’s Online Store Temporally Unavailable →      Make a Quick Search   Search for:     Ask a SMT4:A Question Still need help with Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse?  Ask a question and get help  Find more SMT4:A tutorials   Advertisement        Categories   3DS Accessory Reviews   3DS App Reviews   3DS Game Previews   3DS Game Reviews   3DS How To   3DS In-Game Tutorials   3DS News   3DS Tips and Tricks   Deals   eShop   Mobile   Switch In-Game Tutorials   Switch News   Wii U Game Reviews   Wii U In-game Tutorials   Wii U News              Contact Us  Privacy Policy  Contributors   NintenPedia is an information resource for Nintendo 3DS, Wii U and Switch owners. We are not affiliated with Nintendo or any of its developers. Images, trademarks, and brand names that are viewed on this site are the sole property of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018 NintenPedia.com.     This website uses cookies to improve your user experience. Accept  Read More Privacy & Cookies PolicyYahoo Search Search Skip to Navigation Skip to Market Summary Skip to Main Content Skip to Related Content Sign in Finance Watchlists My Portfolio My Screeners Markets Industries Personal Finance Technology Originals Events U.S. Markets close in 3 hrs 5 mins S&P 500 2,651.17 + 38.01 ( + 1.45% ) Dow 30 24,371.95 + 392.85 ( + 1.64% ) Nasdaq 7,055.68 + 105.34 ( + 1.52% ) Russell 2000 1,537.00 + 22.54 ( + 1.49% ) Crude Oil 65.24 + 1.82 ( + 2.87% ) Gold 1,343.60 + 3.50 ( + 0.26% ) Silver 16.59 + 0.06 ( + 0.37% ) EUR/USD 1.24 + 0.00 ( + 0.21% ) Stocks to Watch Verifone soars, Feds okay Bayer/Monsanto deal, McDonald’s plans big expansion Pokemon Sun and Moon guide: How to get a shiny starter Pokemon Jacob Siegal BGR News November 21, 2016 Reblog Share Tweet Share Back in 2000, Pokemon Gold and Pokemon Silver launched for the Game Boy Color in the United States. Along with adding 100 new Pokemon species to the Pokedex, Gold and Silver also introduced rare Shiny Pokemon to the series for the first time. Shiny Pokemon are rare color variants of standard Pokemon and have appeared in every Pokemon title since Gold and Silver . Chances of encountering one are incredibly  low, but if you’re willing to dedicate some time to it, you can receive a Shiny starter Pokemon in Sun and Moon . READ MORE: How to catch every Legendary Pokemon in Sun and Moon The process isn’t all that complicated, but the cutscene leading up to the moment where you pick a starter Pokemon in Sun or Moon lasts over two minutes. You’re going to have to continually restart until a Shiny Pokemon appears, and with the odds of encountering a Shiny starter at 1 in 4,096, you can see why this process might need to be repeated for hours or even days. Here’s a video from SmkGaming05 describing the process in detail: Everything you need to know is in the video above, but if you’d rather have text instructions to follow, we’ve included those below as well: Save your game after Tapu Koko saves you from falling off the bridge. Talk to Lillie, who is standing between two totems at the bottom of the screen. Cutscene begins. You’ll know if you got a Shiny when you can nickname your starter. If you don’t receive a Shiny Litten, Rowlet or Popplio, you’ll need to reset. In order to soft reset, hold down L + R then press either Start or Select. Every time you soft reset the game, you’ll end up back in front of Lillie, at which point you’ll need to talk to her to initiate the cutscene once again. This is a painful, arduous process, but if you just have to have a Shiny starter, it’s the only way. Here’s what all the Shiny starters look like (h/t Now Loading ): shiny-litten-pokemon More shiny-popplio-pokemon More shiny-rowlet-pokemon More If you haven’t already, be sure to read our review of Pokemon Sun and Moon . Trending right now: Best Black Friday deals on Apple gear: iPhone 7, MacBooks, iPads, Beats and more The 5 best Black Friday sales you can shop right now eBay’s PS4 Pro and Xbox One S Black Friday deals are available right now See the original version of this article on BGR.com Reblog Share Tweet Share Recently Viewed Your list is empty. What to Read Next 'The bull is limping' — Wall Street analysts have started cutting their stock market outlooks Yahoo Finance What to expect from Mark Zuckerberg’s congressional hearings Engadget China's president offers US possible trade concessions Associated Press Amazon has a $40 Apple Watch accessory you’ll wonder how you ever lived without BGR News NEWS BITES: Trump calls raid ‘witch hunt’, Syrian troops on alert, Puerto Rico to reportedly get aid Yahoo Finance Video Stocks surge after China calms trade war fears, oil and tech surge Yahoo Finance Two 'newly discovered' human organs aren't what they seem Engadget Update: Facebook rolls out $40K user data abuse bounty ahead of Zuckerberg's Congressional testimony TechCrunch Verifone soars after major announcement, Feds okay Bayer/Monsanto deal, McDonald’s plans big expansion Yahoo Finance Today’s best deals: $8 Alexa smart bulbs, 4K Fire TV, Fire TV Stick, shiatsu massager pillow, more BGR News MARKETS: Inflation is heating up—and it's not just a surge in wholesale vegetable prices Yahoo Finance Video Global debt rose to $237 trillion in 2017, highest level on record Yahoo Finance 2020 Chevrolet Silverado HD shows its big chrome face Autoblog Facebook's Zuckerberg to testify before Senate committees Yahoo Finance Get ready for a stellar earnings season Yahoo Finance Best iOS app deals of the day! 6 paid iPhone apps are free for a limited time Digital Trends MARKETS: Tech stocks, financials and even Tesla rip higher after Xi performance Yahoo Finance Video Checkout lines are about to get faster Yahoo Finance Under Trump, a voice for the American consumer goes silent Associated Press How not to run out of money in retirement Associated Press How to buy the Apple iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus Digital Trends MARKETS: Saudis want $80 crude oil, but it's going to take more than a Bloomberg article Yahoo Finance Video Congress should demand Zuckerberg move to 'one share, one vote' TechCrunch Trump Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert to Resign Bloomberg Vizio’s new P-series TV is its brightest yet Engadget Leaked render shows LG is going all-in on the notch BGR News US deficit to top $1 trillion by 2020: CBO Yahoo Finance Video Chevy will launch 3 new pickup trucks by 2020 to take on Ford (GM, F, FCAU) Business Insider Facebook traders are bracing for the worst ahead of Mark Zuckerberg's hearing Business Insider                              Toggle navigation     Thonky            Guides  Play  Utilities  News       Skip to main content       Pokémon X and Y Walkthrough    Toggle navigation             Walkthrough     Starting the Game  Vaniville Town  Aquacorde Town  Avance Trail  Santalune Forest  Ouvert Way  Santalune City  Santalune Gym  Gym Leader Viola  Route 4: Parterre Way  Lumiose City  Route 5: Versant Road  Camphrier Town  Route 7: Rivière Walk  Route 6: Palais Lane  Parfum Palace  Palais Lane East  Palais Lane West  Rivière Walk West  Connecting Cave: Zubat Roost  Route 8: Muraille Coast  Ambrette Town  Route 9: Spikes Passage  Glittering Cave  Lower Route 8: Muraille Coast Beach Area  Cyllage City  Gyllage City Gym  Gym Leader Grant  Route 10: Menhir Trail  Geosenge Town  Route 11: Miroir Way  Reflection Cave  Shalour City  Tower of Mastery  Shalour Gym  Gym Leader Korrina  Tower of Mastery, part 2  Route 12: Fourrage Road  Azure Bay  Coumarine City  Coumarine Gym  Gym Leader Ramos  Route 13: Lumiose Badlands  Kalos Power Plant  Lumiose City North  Lumiose Gym  Gym Leader Clemont  Route 14: Laverre Nature Trail  Laverre City  Laverre Gym  Gym Leader Valerie  Poké Ball Factory  Route 15: Brun Way  Lost Hotel  Route 16: Mélancolie Path  Dendemille Town  Frost Cavern  Route 17: Mamoswine Road  Anistar City  Anistar City Gym  Gym Leader Olympia  Lysandre Labs  Team Flare Secret HQ  Route 18: Vallée Étroite Way  Couriway Town  Route 19: Grande Vallée Way  Snowbelle City  Route 20: Winding Woods  Pokémon Village  Snowbelle Gym  Gym Leader Wulfric  Route 21: Dernière Way  Victory Road  Elite Four and Champion: Pokémon League  Post-Game  Kiloude City  Looker Sidequest       Guides     Mega Evolutions List and Mega Stone Locations  Lumiose City Style Guide  Battle Chateau  Poké Radar Chaining Guide  Chain Fishing  Player Search System  Super Training  Pokémon-Amie       Lists     Pokémon Locations in Pokémon X and Y  False Swipe for Generation VI Pokémon  List of Incense          Guides  Pokémon X and Y Walkthrough  Poké Radar Chaining Guide          ← Battle Chateau  Chain Fishing →     Poké Radar Chaining Guide   The Poké Radar helps you find wild pokémon and can greatly increase your chance of finding a shiny pokémon.
This page is about chaining with the Poké Radar. For fish chaining, please read the chain fishing guide .  How to Get the Poké Radar  You can get the Poké Radar after defeating the Elite Four and 
the Champion . Go to Lumiose City and go to 2F of Professor Sycamore's lab. Talk to the scientist on
the right and he will give you the Poké Radar.  How to Use the Poké Radar  To use the Poké Radar, you
first have to charge it up by walking 50 steps.
Then you have to be standing in grass or flowers where wild pokémon can appear. 
When you use the radar, some patches of grass around you will
shake. Those shaking patches have wild pokémon. 
Step into the shaking patch to encounter
a wild pokémon.  What is Chaining?  After you use the Poké Radar and defeat or capture a pokémon that you found in a shaking patch of grass or
a bubbling spot on the water, the background music will be different,
and grass around you will shake again. If you find the same 
type of pokémon in the next spot, the grass will shake again after you defeat or capture it. When you keep finding
the same pokémon each time, it's called chaining. During a chain, the background music will continue to be different
from the usual background music.       The longer you chain, the more likely you are to encounter a shiny pokémon. The shiny probability
reaches maximum after you have chained 40 times. If a shiny is in a patch of grass, the shiny patch will sparkle
and make a different sound. In addition, the background music will be different if a shiny patch is available.  Don't Break the Chain  The following things will break the chain:   Using your rollerskates or bicycle  Encountering a different type of pokémon from the one that you started the chain with  Encountering a wild pokémon that was not in a shaking patch of grass  Leaving the area  Saving and restarting from where you left off   Encountering a legendary bird does NOT break the chain.  Chaining Tips  It's easiest to chain in a large patch of grass or flowers. You might want to practice in the big flower patch of
Pokémon Village. There are also a bunch of purple flowers in Route 5.  Buy a lot of Super Repels and use them while you are chaining. (Super Repels are more cost-effective than
Max Repels.) This helps you avoid non-radar pokémon that would break your chain.  When you walk into a patch of grass, pay attention to how quickly/forcefully it was shaking. As you
continue the chain, make sure that you always step into a patch of grass that is shaking the same way as the first
one. The same type of shaking means that you are likely to encounter the same type of pokémon that you have
been chaining with.  Ignore the patches of grass that shake very slowly and gently. These do not have any pokémon in them.  If there aren't any good patches of grass, 
you can use the Poké Radar again without breaking the chain. Just walk around for fifty steps without
encountering a wild pokémon, then use the Poké Radar while standing in the grass to make different
shaking patches of grass appear.  After you have chained 40 times, you have maximized your probability of encountering a shiny, so instead
of walking into the shaking patches of grass after you have chained 40 times,
you should just use the Poké Radar over and over until a shiny patch appears. As mentioned above, a patch of
grass with a shiny in it will glow, and the background music will be different from the usual 
Poké Radar music.            ← Battle Chateau  Chain Fishing →       Get the Games        Get help with games!   Go to list of all games                                                                                          Page last updated 2015-12-16T12:45:20-06:00   © 2018  Thonky.com | Privacy Policy | About Thonky.com                    Get the Games                                  Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances to find a wild shiny Pokémon in XY & ORAS?           up vote  5  down vote  favorite  1      I've been seeing people getting millions of shiny Pokémon in X & Y without effort. My first shiny on Pokémon X (Corsola) also took only 93 fishing encounters.  I'm wondering: is the chance of finding a shiny in Pokémon X & Y better than it used to be?  If so, what is the chance to find a wild shiny in X & Y ? How does it compare to the previous games in the series)?    pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation     share | improve this question      edited Sep 9 '15 at 7:40       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Nov 30 '13 at 0:53       ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay   48 1 1 4              add a comment |           4 Answers 4     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      The chance of getting a shiny has indeed improved. It has doubled. This is further increased by chain fishing, getting multiple Pokemon in a row without moving or getting the "Not even a nibble" message. Poke radar works much the same to improve the odds, and the Masuda Method of breeding further increases these odds.  The Masuda Method means you take a foreign Pokemon and breed it with one from your region. For example, say you wonder trade and get a Japanese Pikachu. Breed that with a Pikachu you caught and you have a better chance of a shiny than if you breed two Pikachu that you caught.  This chance is increased further in the Friend Safari. In the Friend Safari, you are eight times more likely to find a shiny than the rest of the game. However, the shiny charm does not affect this.     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 27 '14 at 13:59             answered Nov 30 '13 at 1:08       LLF   1,000 6 16                  @BenBrocka Thank you. I don't know how I got halved there. Might be that at first I thought that it in fact hadn't changed, before I double checked. – LLF  Nov 30 '13 at 1:17            Thanks i got a japenese ditto so i can Masuda Method anything. – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 6 '13 at 21:05             Same here. Easiest way to do it, though you get eggs faster if they're the same species. – LLF  Dec 7 '13 at 21:58            Now I need to get a japenese Charmander – ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay  Dec 8 '13 at 16:38        3      @ShinyCharmanderAllTheWay You wouldn't want to breed a Japanese Ditto with a Japanese Charmander. Having them both from the same region would cancel out the effect of the Masuda Method. If you have a Japanese Ditto, use it with everything that IS NOT from Japan. The 2 pokemon have to be from different regions for the Masuda Method to work correctly. – C-dizzle  Dec 20 '13 at 14:47        |  show 3 more comments             up vote  5  down vote      The chances of getting a shiny are doubled in normal gameplay from 1/8192 to 1/4096. There are also many new ways to encounter shinies while retaining the old methods. The masuda method is probably the second easiest next to chain fishing. I'll discuss all the ways of catching shinies.  1:Pokeradar. The pokeradar has once again made a return to pokemon games and it is simple. you charge it by walking and you go into the patches of grass that are the same. You start a chain if you keep getting the same pokemon over and over again. you continue the chain by either capturing it or fainting it. If you run away, get a different pokemon, turn on your rollerblades, basically do anything other than encounter the previous pokemon---the chain breaks. however, if you get to 40 chains the chances rise to 1/200 and you can keep reseting the pokeradar until you get a shiny patch.  2:Horde. This is a very popular new way of getting shinies. All you do basically do is get a pokemon with sweet scent or if you have honey and keep getting hordes over and over again until you get a shiny.  3:Matsuda Method: Its basically what everyone said, you simply breed 2 pokemon from different regions and you hope for the best. O-powers and having a pokemon with flame body helps this method. This is ideal if you want to control its nature or iv's  4:Chain Fishing. This is also a new way of getting shinies and definitely the easiest. It's basically like pokeradar except that it takes a bit of skill. you have to consecutively reel in pokemon for a chain. the things that break this chain is missing a hook(like basically throwing in a rod but not getting a pokemon either b/c of mistake or simply didn't get a nibble), using wrong key item, moving, or opening any kind of menu. to address the not getting a nibble problem, I strongly suggest getting either a Inkay or Octillery with suction cups that ensures a nibble. I also reccomned not fishing from the shore and also fishing near rocks or anywhere that is closed off. This is the easiest b/c after only 40 chains, the chances go up to 1/200 and stays that way until you break the chain. Don't let this mislead you though b/c it is actually very hard to keep getting every bite. It also took me about 16 tries just to get to 40 and took me to 106 chains before I got my shiny Dragalge. I got my second one at around 167. The things that don't break the chain is running away, capturing it, and fainting it.  5:Friend Safari. The final and last way is very easy but very time consuming. all you basically do is just run around, derping until you get a shiny. This is good for competitive battling as friend safari usually gives the hidden abilities and good natures. It does have an increased shiny rate from the get-go. as soon as you go into one, the chances of getting a shiny goes up to 1/2000.  Hoped this helped you guys! ;)     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 27 '13 at 4:15       Pokemon-helper   51 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      No one really knows whether the rate has increased or not. But by looking at the amount of shinies which has entered the game, through methods such as the Masuda Method and chain ishing, it's more than likely that once again, GameFreak has improved the chance of getting a shiny pokemon from Generation 5 to 6, as they did from Generation 4 to 5 (Masuda Method).  There also seems to be a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon in friend safaris. No statistic has been confirmed yet, however.     share | improve this answer     answered Nov 30 '13 at 12:00       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36              add a comment |             up vote  -2  down vote      the chances go up when you are hatching the eggs but in the wild it is said the chances are now 2,192 for encountering a shiny pokemon. these are just rumors though but i have 2 shiny that were given to me and i have not encountered a shiny by myself. they were all given to me.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 4 '13 at 20:28       somebody   9              1      What source do you have that the shiny rate is increased in the wild? – Frank  Dec 4 '13 at 20:43        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Jan 19 '14 at 2:50   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y  pokemon-sixth-generation or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 4 months ago      viewed     67,809 times       active    2 years, 7 months ago          Linked     -3   Pokemon shiny hunting      Related   2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Is there a specific chance of hatching a shiny in X and Y using the Masuda Method? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 5 If you catch a Pokémon does your chances of meeting it in the wild increase? 0 Are there really small secret methods of raising one's chance of encountering a shiny? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 14 Can PokéTransporter make a Pokémon shiny? 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking? 3 How exactly does Hatching Power reduce hatch time? 0 Would resetting Trainer ID help in terms of shiny chances?      Hot Network Questions     Should Unity lifecycle methods be annotated with the UsedImplicitly attribute?    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    How to make people spread over the earth?    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    How does the title 'The Imitation Game' justify the story of the movie?    Automated way to create a directory tree    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    What to play while singing in keyboard?    How many arguments were passed?    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    What is lost when we move from reals to complex numbers?    How does a device (dashcam) recognize if it is connected to a computer or a power source?    Is it safe/wise to store a salt in the same field as the hashed password?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    How to ensure two standalone documents have same dimensions    How do I keep presenting progressively more challenging encounters to my PCs without making them think that the world is gaining Levels as they are?    How can I involve a PC's backstory in a campaign that's set exclusively in a distant or foreign location?    Advantage of luminescent eggs?    I have a crush on a coworker but won't act on it, how can I tell my boyfriend about it and that I'll remain faithful?    Is the quotient of a toric variety by a finite group still toric    Best way to use emplace_back to avoid move constructor call?    Why didn't Voldemort create a seventh Horcrux not knowing Harry was one?    How is the voltage supply and peak-to-peak voltage of a rectifier found in this example?    How to reward students for learning from mistakes without penalizing those who didn't make mistakes in the first place?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         What are the chances of encountering a shiny Pokémon?           up vote  3  down vote  favorite       For Sun & Moon, are the chances to catch a shiny Pokémon the same of previous generations, like X & Y? Or are the chances somewhat higher or lower this time around?    pokemon-sun-moon     share | improve this question      edited Apr 27 '17 at 11:46       Ealhad   5,105 1 17 37        asked Nov 19 '16 at 21:30       senpai   39.3k 121 348 548              1      The chances in X and Y were higher than in previous generations. – DanmakuGrazer  Nov 19 '16 at 21:46            @DanmakuGrazer Oh were they?  Now I'm wondering if they made the rates even higher for this generation. – senpai  Nov 19 '16 at 21:49        add a comment |           2 Answers 2     active  oldest  votes            up vote  1  down vote  accepted      Breeding with the Masuda Method, your chances of getting a shiny are 1 in 683. If you have the shiny charm and use the Masuda Method, your chances are 1 in 512. Thus, using the Masuda Method is the best.  With SOS chaining, if you get a chain of 70 and above, you have a 1 in 1024 chance, and with the shiny charm it becomes 1 in 683. Therefore, the Masuda Method still gives you a better chance, but the SOS chaining method may be faster if you turn off battle actions in your game options.     share | improve this answer      edited Jun 16 '17 at 16:22       Question Marks   1,299 2 9 28        answered Dec 14 '16 at 21:46       Comfy Neko9   42 1                  You should explain the Adrenaline Orb method, as it's written now is unclear and misleading. Also, any source of your numbers? – pinckerman  Jan 13 '17 at 20:42             The Adrenaline Orb paragraph seems to be referring to the chance of getting a shiny while SOS chaining. Using an Adrenaline Orb does not increase the chance of finding a shiny at all, but it makes SOS chaining easier, and after getting up to a chain of 70+, the chances of encountering a shiny in the chain effectively become 1 in 1024. – Question Marks  Jun 16 '17 at 15:55        2      As someone who isn't overly familiar with shiny Pokémon or methods to catch them, this answer is a really bad resource.  The question was about encountering shines, and you talk about breeding through the "medusa method" without explaining what it is or providing a resource.  You then mention SOS chaining, which again, no way to tell what that is from your answer.  I own the game and this answer has me no closer to knowing the odds of a shiny encounter because it's not clear what these methods are. – JMac  Jun 16 '17 at 16:45        add a comment |              up vote  6  down vote      Reportedly, they are the same as they were in gen6: 1 in 4096  The Masuda Method (breeding two Pokémon from different languages) still works to increase your chances of breeding a shiny. The way(s) of increasing the chances of wild shiny Pokémon have been replaced with Ally Chaining , which involves using an Adrenaline Orb to force the wild Pokémon to call an ally for help, KO one of the two, and let the remaining one call for help, until you encounter a shiny.     share | improve this answer      edited Apr 27 '17 at 11:46       Ealhad   5,105 1 17 37        answered Nov 19 '16 at 21:58       Trent Hawkins   15.2k 11 57 85              2      This is somewhat confirmed by an NPC in the first town on Akala Island, who will say (paraphrasing) "Your chances of finding a shiny Pokemon are about 1 in 4000". Not sure if this changes when you get the shiny charm. – SGR  Dec 2 '16 at 12:55        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Aug 29 '17 at 5:53   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-sun-moon or ask your own question .         asked    1 year, 4 months ago      viewed     28,312 times       active    7 months ago          Related   2 What are the differences between Pokémon Sun & Pokémon Moon? 5 Which Pokémon games can I use to trade Pokémon with the Sun and Moon versions? -1 STAB in Pokémon Sun & Moon 6 When are the statistics (IVs/Ability/Gender etc.) for a hatched Pokémon randomised? 10 Which Pokémon can't be shiny in Sun/Moon? 5 Is there an item that increases the rate at which you find shiny Pokémon? 4 How to disable game synchronisation? 7 How does Synchronize interact with SOS Battles? 2 Are Shiny and Dawn Stone present in PokéPelago? 1 How do I perform 'shiny swapping'?      Hot Network Questions     The Folding Maze    How many arguments were passed?    When is a function in a standard library module called a built-in function?    Why is the US Congress getting involved in the privacy issues at Facebook?    Objects' coordinates and scale adjustment according to different devices resolution and aspect ration in Unity    I have two siblings; we're locked in a war    Why doesn’t the IRS just send me a bill for the taxes I owe based on the info they already have?    Giving character hints to players    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    Having trouble getting my friends to get invested in the game    Is MULTICURVE geometry in WKT valid according to the standard and open source community?    Can animated undead wear armor and use weapons?    Can I hire my kid and start a Roth IRA for him?    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    I want to leave Islam, but they would execute and kill me. What do I do?    Automated way to create a directory tree    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    Is the quotient of a toric variety by a finite group still toric    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    Can a writer joke with the reader without breaking the fourth wall?    How can I give out my telephone number without implying anything?    Sort spelled-out serial numbers    Why didn't Voldemort create a seventh Horcrux not knowing Harry was one?    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         Is it possible to get a shiny Honedge without breeding?           up vote  0  down vote  favorite       I have already looked at many articles on the subject but all of them just say it's possible to find on route 6, or you can breed 'till the cows come home trying to get a shiny. I'm not real big on breeding and was wondering, is there a way to get a shiny honedge that does not involve breeding or the pokemon radar (because it does not work on rout 6 due to the tall grass)?    pokemon-x-y     share | improve this question     asked Mar 23 '14 at 4:57       Cyberson   839 2 10 26              2      You can get a shiny of everything: Starters, gifts, fossils, even Legendaries (only exceptions are trades and event Pokémon). The problem with shiny Pokémon is that they're extremely rare. Breeding and Pokémon Radar are only supposed to increase your chances at getting a shiny Pokémon. – Nolonar  Mar 23 '14 at 5:15         2      @Nolonar I think since Gen5 or so some in-game legendaries have been flagged so that they can't be shiny outside of event distribution. – Trent Hawkins  Mar 23 '14 at 5:36        1      Note that breeding doesn't actually increase the chances for a shiny, but ensures the shiny will have the Nature and attacks (and to some degree stats) you want it to have once it appears. Using the Masuda method does increase the chances while breeding, but the breeding itself doesn't. – scenia  Mar 24 '14 at 9:24         add a comment |           3 Answers 3     active  oldest  votes            up vote  7  down vote  accepted      Yes, any wild pokémon (with the exception of some legendaries) you encounter can be shiny.  However, keep in mind that without any tricks available to increase the shiny rate (Radar, horde battles, etc), your chances are low. Even with the item for 'finishing' the national dex, you are still looking at 1 in 2,000 or so. Also, Honedge aren't the only pokémon in the grass; even if we assume the chance of a Honedge is equal to the other five (It isn't; Bulbapedia lists it as 'rare' ), that would take your chances to 1 in 24,000 (assuming a base rate of 1 in 4,000 or so).  Compare this with breeding: You can put an ordinary Honedge in the daycare with another opposite gendered Honedge, 1 in 4,000 (Again, roughly, assuming this is the base rate) chance of each egg being shiny. Take out one of those Honedge and stick in a Ditto (or any pokémon from the Mineral egg group ) that was caught in a different region, like Japan, and your chance doubles to 1 in 2,000.  Breeding repeatedly might get a little dull, but if you have to breed " 'till the cows come home " to get a shiny, you'll be wading through the grass until the cows came home 6-12 times by comparison.     share | improve this answer      edited Mar 23 '14 at 5:41             answered Mar 23 '14 at 5:33       Trent Hawkins   15.2k 11 57 85              add a comment |              up vote  1  down vote      Im kind of late to this sorry, but the fastest method I found was to use a pokemon with Magnet pull on Route 6. Magnet Pull increases the chance of encountering a steel pokemon to 150% of the usual chance. And as Honedge is the only steel type there, you will encounter more of them.
Other pokemon will still show up, but honedge will be the most common, so the chances of it being the shiny you encounter are a bit higher.     share | improve this answer     answered Apr 6 '14 at 13:51       Beech   11 1              add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      Also, if you have some good pokemon with you, I would look on the GTS. There may be some unreasonable offers but if you are persistent, you may be able to get one.     share | improve this answer     answered Oct 18 '14 at 12:32       user90282   11 1              add a comment |            Your Answer            draft saved  draft discarded             Sign up or log in    Sign up using Google   Sign up using Facebook   Sign up using Email and Password        Post as a guest       Name     Email             Post as a guest       Name     Email            discard  By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service .     Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y or ask your own question .         asked    4 years ago      viewed     8,612 times       active    3 years, 5 months ago          Related   11 Can my starter Pokemon be shiny? 2 By what amount does the Masuda method increase the chance of breeding a Shiny? 2 Can you get a shiny or female Pokémon from an in-game trade? 2 Can you get a shiny and/or female Torchic from Mystery Gift? -3 Pokemon shiny hunting 0 How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x 4 Is it possible to soft reset to a shiny Yveltal/Xerneas/Zygarde? 1 How to copy a Pokemon in breeding? 0 Is Shiny Xerneas possible with game restarts? 0 Is it possible to Soft Reset for a shiny Snorlax on Route 7?      Hot Network Questions     How to deal with boss asking employees to wear specific clothes when it is uncomfortable?    Up go the bits!    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    Should Unity lifecycle methods be annotated with the UsedImplicitly attribute?    How do I keep presenting progressively more challenging encounters to my PCs without making them think that the world is gaining Levels as they are?    How can I involve a PC's backstory in a campaign that's set exclusively in a distant or foreign location?    Why do they say I am committing a fallacy when I am just insulting someone?    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    Count the number of lines in macro argument    Why isn't the bracha "Al Achillat Matzah" said before eating the Afikoman?    Can a writer joke with the reader without breaking the fourth wall?    How to make a Tree diagram using images as vertices, that goes left to right    Paths & Wasting Time    French A roads, Spanish E- roads, Dutch E roads and German roads    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    How do I talk about my abusive former advisor if people ask?    What TV show is this?    Using tikz Calc package to add cordinates    Why didn't Voldemort create a seventh Horcrux not knowing Harry was one?    When to partition the hard drive?    What am I talking about here?    Automated way to create a directory tree    When is `_` an environment variable of a bash shell?    Does backing up a database shrink the transaction log size?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x [duplicate]           up vote  0  down vote  favorite  1       This question already has an answer here:    How can you increase the shiny rate?  5 answers     How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x.  Your answers will be really appreciated because i'm desperate for a shiny Charmander in my game Pokemon x.  Thanks.    pokemon-x-y     share | improve this question     asked Feb 2 '14 at 9:46       shiny hunter   4 1 1 2           marked as duplicate by Private Pansy , TZHX , galacticninja , Jeffrey Lin , kalina  Feb 2 '14 at 13:38   This question has been asked before and already has an answer. If those answers do not fully address your question, please ask a new question .              The question is poorly worded and it sounds like you would just like to obtain a shiny charmander which is way easier then breeding one. – rom016  Dec 6 '15 at 0:18        add a comment |           1 Answer 1     active  oldest  votes            up vote  2  down vote      You would be using the Masuda method . You will need at least one Pokemon from the Charmander evolution line, and one Pokemon to breed with it. The two should come from games from different countries *.  Example pairings:   Male Charmeleon from USA + Female Charmeleon from France  Female Charizard from UK + Ditto from Japan  Female Charmander from Germany + Male Dragonite from UK   It is to be noted that you will be getting eggs more frequently when breeding two similar species Pokemon (i.e. Charmeleon + Charmeleon but not Charizard + Dragonite), so you might opt for something more like the first example.  This doesn't mean that you will get a shiny quickly; shinies are still rare, but they are easier to come by.  Other things that will help:   Oval Charm - Increases chances of getting eggs and obtained from Prof. Sycamore for completing seeing all Pokemon in the KalosDex (except Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres, Diancie, Hoopa and Volcanion),  Shiny Charm - Increases chances of getting shiny Pokemon and obtained from Prof. Sycamore for completing NationalDex.   With the Masuda method, you have 1 in 1,365.3 to get a shiny. If you have a Shiny Charm too, you bring this down to 1 in 1,024 (these figures are from Gen V data, but they are assumed to be the same here, until the figures are confirmed).   And besides this, if your actual aim is a shiny Charizard, it is believed that the Friend Safari has the shiny rate encounter increased. So you might also try to get shiny Charmeleon from a Fire-type Friend Safari with a Charmeleon and the Shiny Charm. I don't know the shiny rate encounter however.   * If it's from the same country but different language, the odds remain unchanged at 1 in 8,192. This is only my speculation based on the fact that in-game traded Pokemon with different languages does not increase the chance of getting shinies through breeding. It's not difficult to get a foreign Pokemon anyway, with GTS.     share | improve this answer      edited Apr 7 '16 at 9:28             answered Feb 2 '14 at 10:04       Jerry   4,964 12 28              1      To the anonymous user that edited this post to include their own strategy guide YouTube video; I have rejected the edit, as a separate guide should be posted as your own answer, and a video is not significant enough, by itself. If you wish to include the video, make sure you include enough information pertaining to the strategy guide, so that the important information is supplemented with text. We do not qualify videos as answers, in the same way that we do not qualify link-only answers. – user106385  Apr 6 '16 at 0:21        add a comment |       Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-x-y or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 2 months ago      viewed     61,962 times       active    2 years ago          Linked     10   How can you increase the shiny rate?      Related   5 How can I tell in battle if a Pokemon is shiny? 2 Is there any way to know how many pokemon you have? 2 How do you stop boosted exp for traded pokemon? 2 Does the Pokemon need to be the same for the Masuda method in X/Y? 2 How many pokemon are obtainable in XY 0 Is it possible to get a shiny Honedge without breeding? 1 Masuda Method Help 1 Does running away from pokemon while chaining stop the chain? -1 possible different ways to get the kanto starters and ways to get fossils in x and y 2 How can I prevent my chain from breaking?      Hot Network Questions     When is `_` an environment variable of a bash shell?    “The heat button” or “the button of heat”    What is lost when we move from reals to complex numbers?    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    How do I talk about my abusive former advisor if people ask?    What can I do to get models to take my small camera more seriously?    Can a zeroth order reaction be reversible?    Why is the US Congress getting involved in the privacy issues at Facebook?    Why is this shared-neutral wiring bad?    What TV show is this?    When is a function in a standard library module called a built-in function?    What technique is best for moving two large (20 kg) suitcases, reasonably short distances (<1km)?    How does a device (dashcam) recognize if it is connected to a computer or a power source?    How to take top 10 built-in function    Small step down transformer fuse, primary or secondary?    How can I avoid the awkwardness of a returning player who wears a low-cut shirt?    What's the probable cause for extremely low inbound traffic and high outbound traffic?    Best way to use emplace_back to avoid move constructor call?    Best use of phoenixes in battle    Is MULTICURVE geometry in WKT valid according to the standard and open source community?    How to make people spread over the earth?    Does backing up a database shrink the transaction log size?    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    more hot questions             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                   Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    Arqade        Arqade Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           Arqade       Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  Arqade is a question and answer site for passionate videogamers on all platforms. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         How can you increase the shiny rate?           up vote  10  down vote  favorite  1      I remember seeing somewhere that if you breed a Pokemon from a different region its offspring would have a higher chance of being shiny. Is this true?  What other methods can be used to increase the odds of obtaining shiny Pokemon?  Also, What is the chance of breeding a shiny if one/both of the parent Pokemon are also shiny?    pokemon-series     share | improve this question      edited Oct 22 '13 at 11:03       Robotnik ♦   24.7k 36 119 208        asked Oct 21 '13 at 9:37       Qwertie   1,272 5 14 39                  I would use the Consecutive fishing method because you put more effort into geting a shiny pokemon So far the shinies I've gotten from this method is: - 12 Claunchers - 1 Horsea – N7spaceranger  Jan 14 '14 at 5:13         add a comment |           5 Answers 5     active  oldest  votes            up vote  8  down vote  accepted      From serebii.net , if you breed a pokemon from another region different to your game with another pokemon, you will have a higher chance of getting a shiny pokemon. Colloquially called the Masuda Method after the developer Junichi Masuda, this can increase your chance of breeding a shiny from 1 in 8,192 to 1 in 2,048 (Generation 4) or 1,365.3 (Generation 5). Generation 6 figures are unknown at the moment, but to be honest I've heard a lot of people getting shinies so it could have been lowered even more.  As noted by Nolonar it is required that both parents must come from a game with different language. For instance, if your game is in English and both parents are Japanese, the Masuda method will not work.   Without any method, the chance of encountering, obtaining, or breeding a shiny pokemon is 1 in 8,192.   Although this doesn't specifically increase your shiny rate, there's an item called a PokeRadar which can use a method called chaining to find shiny pokemon in the wild. A good guide I found is here     share | improve this answer      edited Oct 22 '13 at 13:55       Arperum   6,869 9 49 81        answered Oct 21 '13 at 9:53       TerryA   3,482 6 20 36                  do you have know anything about the last part of my question? – Qwertie  Oct 21 '13 at 9:57        3      @qwertyk31 Breeding shinies together does not increase your chance of getting a shiny kid. About the Masuda method, both parents must come from a game with different language. For instance, if your game is in English and both parents are Japanese, the Masuda method will not work. – Nolonar  Oct 21 '13 at 10:04            @qwertyk31 Oops, guess I missed that bit. But yea, Nolonar answered it – TerryA  Oct 21 '13 at 10:31            Found an illustrated guide of the PokeRadar method on Kotaku . – 5pike  Oct 24 '13 at 8:09            Outside of breding, there's also that rumor/theory circulating that tipping waiters and such in X and Y increases the shiny encounter rate, but it's probably best to take that with a grain of salt. – Jocelyn  Dec 19 '13 at 1:11        |  show 1 more comment             up vote  4  down vote      In addition to the other region pokemon, Poke Radar, and "just breed piles of stuff" methods, there is a new Consecutive Fishing method which appears to significantly increase Shiny occurances but exists only in Generation 6/ Pokemon XY.   It turns out that if you manage to get a chain of consecuctive fishing hooks, it will gradually increase the likelihood of finding a Shiny Pokémon, with the exact figures still to come. The higher the amount of Pokémon hooked, the more likely you get a shiny Pokémon, but as with PokéRadar, this is not a guarantee.  There are a few things that will break this consecutive streak, however. If you move from the spot, the streak is broken. If you pull in the rod too early, the streak is broken. If you don't get a nibble, the streak is broken. With the latter being a possibility, it's logical to have a Pokémon with the ability Suction Cups as your lead in order to increase the likelihood of hooking a Pokémon.   Some more info on fishing streaks is here :   What we know for sure breaks a streak: -Getting the "Nothing seems to be biting..." message (Random, but the odds are manipulable) -Getting the "No! You reeled it in too fast!" message (Pressed A too soon) -Getting the "No! You reeled it in too slow!" message (Pressed A too late) -Exiting the area in which you're fishing -Getting into a battle that isn't through fishing -Exiting the game   The shiny rate seems to increase significantly by this method and reports seem to indicate around 150-200 consecutive catches may grant a shiny. The problem of course is you can only catch shinies that can be fished up in that area, and it's mostly luck as to which pokemon you get (unless you want a shiny lucdisc or Magikarp, in which case use the Old Rod).  200 catches may seem high, but it's miles ahead of the one in 8000+ chance normally and still significantly better than the 1 in 1,365.3 chance the gen 5 foreign Ditto chance had (it is unknown if the foreign ditto method has improved in gen 6 yet).     share | improve this answer     answered Oct 22 '13 at 13:12       Ben Brocka   36k 77 212 358                  I just managed to catch a shiny with the fishing technique, it was right around 20 successful catches in a row a shiny showed up! – C-dizzle  Oct 22 '13 at 17:22        add a comment |             up vote  2  down vote      In generation II, having a shiny parent did raise the chances of hatching a shiny pokemon.  However, after gen II, the chances of a shiny are NOT increased if either of the parents of shiny. So if you're playing anything other than Gold, Crystal, or Silver, having a shiny parent won't increase the shiny rate.     share | improve this answer     answered Jan 4 '14 at 5:30       Wishy   21 1                  For the record, since the shiny status was dependant on stats, this is technically also true for Gen I, although shinyness had no meaning there. If you trade something over to Gen II, it will become visible. This is the cause of the shiny Ditto glitch in gen II. – scenia  Feb 8 '14 at 19:09        add a comment |             up vote  1  down vote      With the Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon episodes, a new way of catching shiny Pokemon has also be found (only presents in these two versions): the Ultra Wormholes. This method makes it way easier to find shiny Pokemon, as a lot of people stated to have found a shiny from a few minutes until a few hours thanks to this method. There is apparently a 1% of chance of getting a shiny Pokemon this way, which is considerably high compared to the other methods.  You first need to beat the game. Then, when getting back to the Altar of the Moone , a warp hole should be opened here. When you get in it, you will start a mini-game consisting into navigating as far as possible through the Wormhole. For that, you have to catch as many golden globes as possible to gain speed, while dodging blue spheres and colored wormholes. If you go far enough (~3.000 light years from start), you should be able to see white wormholes with rainbow edges appearing. Getting in one of these will considerably increase the luck for the Pokemon inside of it to be shiny. The further you will go, the higher will be the chances for that Pokemon to be shiny.  A really important note is that the fact that the Pokemon is shiny or not is defined when getting out of the wormhole. It means that, if you save right before the Pokemon encounter and that this Pokemon is indeed shiny, you will be able to reset the game to try to get the desired Nature and IV while keeping the shininess. Do note that this doesn't apply to Legendaries and Ultra Beasts, for which you will have to use the regular soft reset method.     share | improve this answer     answered Dec 18 '17 at 13:02       Isuka   10.7k 7 46 88              add a comment |             up vote  -3  down vote      By using this method, every 15 mins I get at least 1.  You'll need any rod (I recommend the great rod)  Have a pokemon with suction cups (Inkay, etc.)  Find an enclosed area and start fishing.  After 20 pokemon then you're getting into the shiny zone, and when you run into a shiny your chain will break.     share | improve this answer      edited Jan 15 '14 at 2:35       David M   4,567 5 29 67        answered Jan 14 '14 at 5:22       N7spaceranger   1 1              1      If you have new information to add, please edit it into your previous answer rather than adding yet another answer. – Trent Hawkins  Jan 14 '14 at 5:40            Alternatively, you could make this a complete post and delete your previous one.  Dealer's choice. – David M  Jan 15 '14 at 2:36        add a comment |         protected by Community ♦  Aug 3 '15 at 12:22   Thank you for your interest in this question. 
Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count ). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead?   Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged pokemon-series or ask your own question .         asked    4 years, 5 months ago      viewed     61,648 times       active    3 months ago          Linked     0   How can I breed a shiny Charmander the easiest way in Pokemon x      Related   5 Can Different Shiny Pokemon of the Same Species be Different Colours? 23 Does a shiny pokemon stay shiny after evolution? 2 Does the shiny encounter rate ever reset? 1 How many unique Pokémon formes are there? 7 What factors influence pokemon breeding time? 3 Can you have a Pokemon from every generation in the latest one? 13 Can a shiny Ditto turn into shiny versions of other Pokemon? 0 I got a pokemon through trade but its in another language 9 What is the purpose of Pokemon moves, Celebrate and Hold Hands? 1 I may have a possible hacked Pokémon I got from trade, what should I do?      Hot Network Questions     The supply and demand of Virtual Products    Could a cave-in or avalanche in low gravity be dangerous?    For n nodes that are connected to at most m and at least 2 other nodes, what values of n and m always allow the connections to not intersect?    How to deal with boss asking employees to wear specific clothes when it is uncomfortable?    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    Did Rachel or any of her friends know about Gunther's crush on her?    Why use baking powder instead of yeast?    When to partition the hard drive?    What TV show is this?    “The heat button” or “the button of heat”    What is lost when we move from reals to complex numbers?    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    Giving character hints to players    Using tikz Calc package to add cordinates    French A roads, Spanish E- roads, Dutch E roads and German roads    Comma Code - Automate the Boring Stuff    How exactly does being frozen solid by a cone of cold work?    Can animated undead wear armor and use weapons?    Single Word : Cannot be resolved by waiting and trying again    Evil Campaigns:How to explain the difference between being evil and being a jerk?    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    How old is the oldest light visible from Earth?    Sort spelled-out serial numbers    How is the voltage supply and peak-to-peak voltage of a rectifier found in this example?    more hot questions     question feed             Arqade   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       Arqade works best with JavaScript enabled                     Browse     Xbox One  Xbox 360  PS4  PS3  Vita  Nintendo  PC  Mobile    Movies  TV  Tech  Comics    Reviews  Upcoming  Videos  Wikis + Cheats  Podcasts  Boards  Trailers    IGN on YouTube  IGN on Facebook  IGN on Twitter  MORE    Browse          Shows           Monday through Friday    Daily Fix   GTA 5 Might Be Bigger Than Star Wars   play latest       Daily Fix  Prepare To Try  HotKeys  Up At Noon  Game Scoop!  Beyond!  Nintendo Voice Chat  Unlocked  more shows    Fireteam Chat  IGN Every Ever  Linked Together  IGN Spotlight  IGN Unfiltered  IGN Access  IGN Plays              Best Game Ever   Mass Effect, Final Fantasy, Dark Souls? Celebs' Favorite RPGs  Ep. 5   play latest            Every Friday    Nintendo Voice Chat   Decay of Logos - Zelda Meets Dark Souls on Nintendo Switch - NVC Podcast Teaser   play latest               Behind the Cosplay   Revealing Star Wars' Iden Versio to the World   play latest        Reviews  PS4  Xbox  PC  Nintendo  Movies  TV  Tech  Esports           Best Deal:  %displayPrice% @ %seller%        Search this wiki   Expand Navigation     Pokemon X Wiki Guide     Pokedex     Pokemon X and Y Version Differences     Starter Guide     Walkthrough     Cheats and Secrets     How To Guides     Rare Pokemon      Starter Pokemon     Version Exclusive Pokemon     Mega-Evolved Pokemon     Legendary Pokemon     Event Pokemon     Fossil Pokemon     Gift Pokemon     In-Game Trades     Shiny Pokemon      Pokedex     Move Dex     Items     Player Search System     Pokemon-Amie     Super Training     Universe     Limited Edition 3DS XLs     Questions and Answers     Bugs and Glitches     Wiki Tools      Top Wiki Contributors      Hardcore Hector  Edits: 7,846       ARowlingStone  Edits: 4,677       CCNintendo  Edits: 2,600       Super-Zambezi  Edits: 2,248     See All Top Contributors »   Wiki Help    Need assistance with editing this wiki?  Beginner's Guide to Wikis  Wiki Support Team    What Links Here    Pokerus | Rare Pokemon | Event Pokemon | Effort Values | Post Game Champion Quests | How to Breed Competitive Pokemon from Scratch           Pokemon X    |    3DS               Game Highlights     Wiki Guide     Review     Videos     Images     Walkthroughs     All Articles     Message Boards       Shiny Pokemon       Edit Page  Last Edit:  August 7, 2016 - 1 year 8 months ago      Shiny Pokemon are extremely rare, alternate colored Pokemon. They were first introduced in Pokemon Gold and Pokemon Silver. Every time one of these Pokemon appears, shiny sparkles flash around them, hence the name. These Pokemon are so rare that some trainers haven't seen one till this day! The exact odds of finding a shiny Pokemon is 1 in 8192. As of Generation VI the odds of finding a shiny are 1 in 4096. They can be found in the wild or through breeding. Other than the alternate color and sparkles, there is nothing special about them. Some Pokemon trainers will be willing to trade some more valuable Pokemon for lesser shiny Pokemon simply based on their rarity.  Vote on the poll!  Edit Masuda Method  If you have two Pokemon from two different language versions in one game, you can breed them and raise the odds of finding a shiny Pokemon to 1 in 1366. Another tip for the Masuda Method is to garner up around 20 to 30 eggs from the Daycare man, place a Pokemon with "Flame Body" or "Magma Armor" (Volcarona or Talonflame are suggested - as they can learn 'Fly') in your first party slot, and then replace all other slots with the unhatched eggs. Then fly to the middle of Lumoise City (Prism Tower) and gently slip a dime beneath your Control stick. If you place it in the right position, you will continuously circle around the Prism tower, hatching all eggs at a speedy rate - thus reducing the time to find a Shiny. Note: the Daycare man will be facing the Road if he has an egg available for you, otherwise, he will be facing the fence. Additionally, the abilities Flame Body and Magma Armor reduce the steps needed to hatch an egg by half.  Edit Pokemon Radar  When you beat the elite four you will have the option to head back to Sycamores Lab in Lumiose City to pick up the Pokemon Radar . There is a scientist with levitating Poke Balls that states he has developed a new tool he wants you to try out. This tool is the Pokemon Radar. To use this device, go into a large grass patch, activate the Poke Radar, and walk (use the D-Pad, not the Circle Pad). The grass will shake showing where Pokemon are located. There are several differing grass shakes. Remember which type you walked into when the Pokemon Battle started.  Slight Shake: There are no Pokemon here.  Regular Shake: Pokemon will be present here.  Heavy Shake: Pokemon will be present here.  Shining and Shaking: Shiny Pokemon will be present here.  When you first start your Poke Radar, you will have a chance to find a Pokemon. Once you find and defeat that Pokemon, more grass will shake. Grass that is four segments away with the same shake from before will most likely contain the same species of Pokemon you previously fought. By chaining these Pokemon, you increase your odds of finding a shiny. If you get to 40 encounters of the same Pokemon without breaking the streak, your odds of finding a shiny are 1/50 (1/200 but 4 grass shakes happen). At this point you do not want to start any new battles, you will want to just recharge the Poke Radar by running back and forth 100 steps without running into any shaking grass.  Edit Tips:  Use super repels, this will help you maintain your streak.  Shaking grass that is four segments away will most likely have the same species of Pokemon  Rarer Pokemon are harder to chain.  You can only chain in short grass and flowers.  Quick Balls are your best friend in case you run into a shiny.  Use a tally on your phone or keep a pen and paper to count your chain.  If the music stops and no grass shakes, your chain is broken.  Using the thumbstick for roller skates, or a bike, will break your chain.  If no grass shakes, charge the Poke Radar and use it again, sometimes the shaking grass will spawn outside of your area and your chain will continue.  Edit Fishing Rod Chaining    This method uses an old and simple item introduced in the very first generation of Pokémon: the Fishing Rod . This is how you can get a Shiny Pokémon by fishing:  First of all, you have to get either the Old Rod (Aquarium in Ambrette Town ), the Good Rod ( Coumarine City ) or the Super Rod ( Route 16 ).  Once you get a Rod, start fishing. You need to create chains of hooked Pokémon, each time you get a battle from fishing, the chances of getting a Shiny Pokémon increases.  It's important to note that the chain will break if you move from the space you are in, so pick one spot and don't move from there. Also, it's better to pick a place surrounded by blocks, rocks, etc., to, let's say, "corner" the Pokémon.  Once you land a Pokémon there's no need to fight it, you can run from the battle and try again. Remember not to move from your spot after the battle.  For better results, get yourself a Pokémon with the ability Suction Cups or Sticky Hold . When a Pokémon with one of these abilities is at the lead of your party, you will always land a Pokemon when fishing. If you don't have one of these abilities, you may get the message "Nothing seems to be biting...", which will break the chain. Also, if you press A too soon or too late, that will cause you to fail landing a Pokémon.             Exit Theatre Mode                 Next Pokedex Previous In-Game Trades                © 1996-2018  Ziff Davis, LLC       Join the IGN Newsletter    Contact Us  Careers  Advertise  Accessibility  Support  Terms of Use  AdChoices           ×   We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here .  IGN uses cookies and other tracking technologies to customize online advertisements, and for other purposes. IGN supports the Digital Advertising Alliance principles. Learn More                                                 MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Video Games » Multi Platform Games » Pokemon Video Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Find Shiny Pokémon  Six Methods: Chaining Breeding Fishing Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries SOS Chaining Ultra Wormholes Community Q&A  Shiny Pokémon are the Rolls Royces of the Pokémon world. These Pokémon are incredibly rare, and act as a status symbol for trainers that own some. Shiny Pokémon have different color schemes than standard Pokémon, but otherwise have identical stats and traits. Getting a Shiny Pokémon is a test of patience, especially if you want to create a whole team of Shinies, but the feeling of satisfaction will be worth it.         Steps    Method  1   Chaining      1   Understand the concept. Encountering a Shiny Pokémon in the wild is a 1/8192 chance. Although this chance is 1/4096 in the newer games, that's really, really low. Chaining is the practice of encountering the same Pokémon repeatedly to increase the chances that a Shiny version will appear. Breaking the chain at any time will reset your chances, making it a slightly tedious experience.  You cannot chain in Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, White 2, HeartGold, or SoulSilver as there is no PokéRadar available. You can chain for Shinies in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, X, Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon        2   Get yourself the PokéRadar. The PokéRadar becomes available after you have defeated the Elite Four. This tool will show you spots in the grass where you can encounter wild Pokémon, and is essential to creating a chain.  Register the PokéRadar to one of your buttons, and unregister any other items (bike, fishing rod, etc.). Using any other item while chaining, even by accident, will reset your chain.       3   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex, so it may take a while. Equipping it will increase your chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2 and White 2, X and Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Sun and Moon, & Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       4   Buy a lot of Super Repels. These items keep random Pokémon from attacking you, and are critical to keeping your chain intact. You should ALWAYS be under the effects of a Super Repel while chaining. It is recommended that you have at least 200 for extended chaining sessions.  Make sure you have a good supply of Pokéballs to catch the Shiny Pokémon. [1]        5   Prepare your team. Assemble a team of well-rounded Pokémon with lots of PP so that regardless of the type of shiny Pokémon you encounter, you will always have someone in your team to beat it. You can use the PP remaining to count your chain as well.  It will really help to have a Pokémon that knows False Swipe, so you can lower the HP of the Shiny Pokémon to 1 without knocking it out.  Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze will also make more difficult Pokémon easier to capture.       6   Decide on your target. Shiny Pokémon appear in the same locations as their regular versions. This means that you should go to a location where you can find normal versions of the Shiny Pokémon you want.     7   Find a large patch of grass. To make chaining easier, you will want to find a patch of grass that is at least 5x5 tiles. This will give you enough room to walk around without breaking your chain, since leaving the patch at any time will break your chain.  Some guides recommend finding patches that are 9x9.       8   Move to the middle of the patch. This will give you the most room to move in any direction.     9   Take your first Super Repel, and then use the PokéRadar to make patches of grass start shaking. Make sure to pay attention to HOW the grass shakes; there are three different ways that the grass can shake. Note the way that the patch you enter is shaking.     10   Walk into your first shaking patch. This will start a battle. If the Pokémon is the type that you want to get as Shiny, KO it to start your chain. If it's not, finish the battle and then walk 50 steps to reset your PokéRadar and start again.     11   Look for the next patch that is shaking the same way as the first one. After KOing the first Pokémon, move onto the next shaking patch to continue the chain. There are several very important aspects to keep in mind:  The next patch must be at least 4 tiles away from you (the numbers vary from guide to guide, but this number is a safe number that will keep your chain active).  The next patch must be shaking the same way that the previous patch was.  If the patch you pick is at the edge of the grass area, you will need to reset your PokéRadar after the fight. Do this by walking 50 steps without fighting and then using it again. Be sure to not leave the grassy area!       12   Repeat the process to raise your chain. Keep finding patches of grass to keep encountering the same Pokémon. Each time you defeat one, your chain will increase by 1. You can either make a tally on a piece of paper or use a Pokémon with a high PP attack to act as a counter. Increase your chain until you get to 40.  If your chain breaks for any reason, you'll have to start over.  Saving your game or quitting will break your chain.  Using the Roller Skates will break your chain.  Leaving the field will break your chain.  Fleeing a battle will break your chain.  Encountering any other Pokémon will break your chain.       13   Start resetting your PokéRadar to try to make shiny patches appear. Once you've reached a 40 chain, your odds are as high as they are going to get. You can now start resetting your PokéRadar until a shiny patch of shaking grass appears. Shiny patches will start appearing in about 1 out of 50 resets. Reset your PokéRadar every 50 steps to cycle through patches as quickly as possible. [2]  Once you've gotten your chain to 40, it can still take a significant amount of time to make a shiny patch appear.       14   Start the fight. Once you see the shiny patch, congratulations! You've summoned a Shiny Pokémon. All that's left to do is capture the Shiny Pokémon found inside. You can capture them just like you would a regular Pokémon. Make sure you don't knock it out! [3]                Method  2   Breeding      1   Obtain a Pokémon from another real-life region. The key to breeding a Shiny Pokémon is to breed Pokémon from two different regions. For example, if you live in the USA, obtain a Pokémon from Japan or Europe. Make sure to obtain the Pokémon that you want to get a Shiny version of.  This breeding method, also known as the Masuda method, is only available in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, HeartGold, SoulSilver, Black, White, Black 2, White 2, X, and Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon  The easiest way to get a Pokémon from another region is to trade with someone. There are several popular trading sites online that can make this a fairly simple process, such as PokéBay and Reddit's Pokémon Trading subreddit.  The two Pokémon must be able to breed normally with each other. This means they must be the same species or share an Egg Group, and are opposite genders. If the Pokémon you want to breed is genderless, then you will need to breed it with a Ditto.  You can tell what region the Pokémon is from by looking at its PokéDex entry. In the upper-right corner, there will be a three-letter abbreviation for the region the Pokémon is from (JPN, FRE, ITA, etc.). If there is nothing there, then the Pokémon is from your own region.       2   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex. Equipping it will raise the chances that the egg that hatches contains a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2, White 2, X, and Y.       3   Put both Pokémon in the Day Care. Depending on their compatibility, the chance of you receiving an egg from the pairing can be anywhere from 70% down to 20%. The game calculates the chance for an egg every 256 steps you take in the world.  You can increase the speed by riding your bike instead of walking.       4   Receive your egg. Once you get an egg, you'll need to hatch it. This can take a little while, and you won't know what's inside until it hatches. By breeding Pokémon from two different regions, your chances for a Shiny go from 1/8192 to 1/1024 (8x more likely). [4]           Method  3   Fishing      1   Understand how fishing streaks work. Pokémon X and Y introduced the concept of "fishing streaks". This requires you to continuously hook wild Pokémon without pulling up nothing or messing up the reel timing. Increasing your streak will increase the chances of catching a Shiny.     2   Gather your equipment. Make sure you have plenty of PokéBalls, as well as a fishing rod. You don't need special rods to perform streaks, but the rod you use will determine the level and type of Pokémon that you can catch.     3   Prepare your party. You will need Pokémon that can beat any Pokémon that you catch on the rod. You will also want a Pokémon with "Suction Cups" or "Sticky Hold" to be the first Pokémon in your party. This will increase the odds of hooking a wild Pokémon, which is essential for fishing streaks.     4   Find a good location. You can increase your chances for hooking a Pokémon by fishing in an enclosed water tile. For example, if you're fishing from the back of a Pokémon, try to find a tile that is surrounded by the land, a rock, you, and an unfishable deep water tile.     5   Start fishing. Once you've found a good spot, cast your line to start fishing. Press "A" as soon as you see the notice that you have a Pokémon on the line. Any of the following messages or actions will cause the streak to end:  "Nothing seems to be biting..." - This is a random occurrence, but can be mitigated by fishing in an enclosed spot.  "No! You reeled in too fast!" - You pressed the A button too soon.  "No! You reeled in too slow!" - You pressed the A button too late.  Leaving the area.  Starting a battle outside of fishing.  Quitting the game.       6   Keep trying. As long as you are successfully hooking Pokémon, your streak will increase. This will increase the odds of finding a Shiny, up to a certain point. Because it is random, there is still the chance that you will not find a Shiny, even after successfully catching numerous Pokémon with your rod.          Method  4   Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries      1   Save right before picking your starting Pokémon or starting a Legendary battle. There is a very small chance that the Pokémon you pick will be Shiny. Save right before picking or starting the battle.     2   Pick the Pokémon or start the fight with the Legendary. If the Pokémon is not Shiny, restart your game.  This will not work on Legendaries in Pokémon X, Y, and some Legendary Pokémon in Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       3   Load your save and try again. This is a long and very time consuming process. Some people have reported it taking over 1000 tries. If you keep trying, however, you may be able to get a Shiny starter or Legendary.  If the Legendary fight is one where the Pokémon will automatically run, it will still be Shiny when you meet it later.            Method  5   SOS Chaining      1   Load up your copy of Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon. This will only work on these games.     2   Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well. If it knows moves such as Explosion or Double Edge, then make sure to prepare for it. Check if the Pokémon can call for help--if not, then this method won't work on it. To counter self-destructing moves, use a Pokémon with the ability Damp. To counter recoil moves, use Skill Swap with a Pokémon with the ability Rock Head or use a Ghost type, as these moves are usually Normal-type.     3   Get some Adrenaline Orbs to allow easier chaining. They increase the odds of Pokémon calling for help. Having Pokémon call for help more will increase the speed of finding your shiny.     4   Have a Pokemon with the move False Swipe or Hold Back on your team. False Swipe is TM54, and a wide array of Pokémon can learn it.     5   Encounter the target Pokémon you want the shiny of. It has to be a Pokémon you can encounter naturally in the wild, so Ultra Beasts, the Tapus, and Legendary Pokémon will not work with this method.     6   Once you find your target, lower its HP to 50% or less. Make sure not to knock it out. At low HP, the Pokémon will start to call for help. This is the start of your hunt.     7   Knock out every Pokémon that is called that is NOT shiny whenever a new Pokémon is called into battle. You can tell if it's not shiny if it stays the same color as usual.     8   Switch Pokemon every 30 to 100 SOS calls. Do so by using False Swipe on the next Pokémon called and knock out the original caller. Knock out the original caller when it's running out of moves--this is why you need to prepare. However, do not swap callers if the other Pokémon isn't the same species as the one you are hunting for.     9   Rinse and repeat until you find the shiny, then catch it. The shiny will sparkle as it enters the battlefield.          Method  6   Ultra Wormholes      1   Start up your Pokemon Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon game. This method only works for these games.     2   (Optional tip) Go to the Game Freak Headquarters on Akala Island. After you have completed the main story mode and defeated the Elite-Four, you can choose either to change how you control Solgaleo/ Lunala through the Ultra Wormhole through two options. 1. Motion Controls or 2. Circle-Pad Controls. This is for better accuracy if you are not comfortable using motion controls.     3   Go to the Altar of the Sun/or Moon. You need to have successfully defeated the Elite-Four to and completed the story mode.     4   Enter through the wormhole. This is located in the front of the Sun/Moon symbol on the ground. Choose Enter the Ultra Wormhole.     5   Catching the shiny Pokemon. There are 20 Pokemon you can catch shiny. You have a higher chance of encountering a shiny Pokemon if you travel farther into the Ultra Wormhole. The more rings a hole has, the rarer the Pokemon. But be careful! If you see a Wormhole with three rings and more smaller rings, that indicates a legendary Pokemon. Unless you are shiny hunting a legendary, do not enter through this Wormhole. See Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries for catching legendary Pokemon in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.             Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      What is the Horde Hunting method?        Bun bun     This is when you repeatedly use Sweet Scent or Honey to encounter hordes of Pokémon. People view this as an efficient method, as there are 5 Pokémon in a horde, so it makes you find a shiny 5 times as fast!   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 6  Helpful 40           Will the sweet scent method work to find a shiny Pokemon?    wikiHow Contributor   In Oras and X/Y, yes. You'll get a herd of Pokemon, and your luck to find a shiny ups to 5/4096. I got some of my own shinies with this method, and those hunts were the shortest.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 16  Helpful 58           I want a shiny starter! How can I decrease my chances of having to restart 1000 times?    wikiHow Contributor   Try breeding a starter. It might be expensive, but If you mange to get a female starter, you can use method two. You only have 1 in 8 chance to get a female starter though, so remember to use your SRs and save.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 14  Helpful 46           Do I continue hatching eggs if I don't get a shiny Pokemon?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 2  Helpful 11           I'm trying to get a shiny through Masuda method breeding. Does having one of the parents be a shiny?        Bun bun     No. The Masuda method is simply breeding 2 Pokémon from different places in the world.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 5  Helpful 16           Are Legendaries in Or/As (Groudon/Kyogre) shiny locked?     Audreywozniak    Yes. You cannot catch a shiny Groudon or Kyogre without hacking the game code or trading with someone who hacked the game code to get one.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 37           Can a regular Pokemon evolve to a shiny one?    wikiHow Contributor   No, they cannot. You have to either encounter one in the wild, or hatch one. However, shiny Pokemon do evolve into their next evolution's shiny form.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 15  Helpful 33           How can I get a Shiny easily?    wikiHow Contributor   There's no "super easy" way to get a shiny Pokemon --  they'd be a lot less rare if there was. However, some of the easier ways are chain fishing (don't move from your spot while you fish, and have a suction cup/sticky hold Pokemon at the front of your party); horde encounters in X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire (use the move Sweet Scent or the item Honey); and the Friend Safari in X and Y (not the Safari Zone in other games. Pokemon in the Friend Safari have a 1/512 chance to be shiny, but you need to add friends on your 3DS). Additionally, the Shiny Charm raises your odds by 300%, but it can only be obtained after you've completed the National (not regional) Dex in Gens 5 and 6.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 8  Helpful 18           What do they mean by other regions?        Lugia2453     It means another country/geographical area outside of the one in which you live.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 19  Helpful 33           Will an English and a Spanish Pokemon have a higher chance to create a shiny just like an English and Japanese breeding together?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 27         Show more answers     Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Don't know what to hunt for? Try Caterpie. It can be used in Masuda Method breeding, can be chained on X and Y, and can call for help in Sun and Moon. Chain fishing for Remoraid is quick and easy too, as it is very common.       Warnings    Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well, as it may knock itself out if you're not prepared.  Don't use moves in SOS chaining that will hit both opposing Pokémon. You may accidentally knock it out.  None of these methods are guaranteed to get you a Shiny Pokémon. All they do is increase your chances of finding one. Finding Shiny Pokémon will still boil down to lots of luck and patience.  Some Pokémon will never be shiny by legitimate means. This is what fans call "shiny locked."        Edit Related wikiHows       How to Randomize a Pokémon Game      How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions      How to Evolve Magikarp      How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team      How to Create Your Own Pokémon      How to Make Your Own Pokémon Game      How to Hatch Pokémon Eggs      How to Evolve Pichu      How to Breed Pokémon      How to EV Train Your Pokémon       Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.psypokes.com/lab/shiny.php    ↑  http://www.smogon.com/ingame/guides/chaining    ↑  http://www.reddit.com/r/pokemon/comments/1ot6ex/chaining_tutorial/    ↑  http://www.usgamer.net/articles/how-to-get-a-shiny-pokemon-in-pokemon-x-and-y      Show more... (1)                Article Info   Categories: Pokemon Video Games  In other languages:  Русский: достать сияющего покемона , Português: Encontrar Pokémons Shiny , Español: encontrar un Pokémon variocolor , Deutsch: Shiny Pokemon finden , Bahasa Indonesia: Menemukan Shiny Pokemon , Français: trouver un Pokémon chromatique , Italiano: Trovare i Pokemon Cromatici , Nederlands: Een Shiny Pokémon bemachtigen    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 643,248 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .     84% of readers found this article helpful .                       19 votes - 84%   Click a star to add your vote   84% of people told us that this article helped them.       Co-authors: 43    Updated:   Views: 643,248       Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Randomize a Pokémon Game How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions How to Evolve Magikarp How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                238                                                  MESSAGES     LOG IN   Log in   Facebook  Google  Civic    wikiHow Account   No account yet? Create an account        EXPLORE  Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes     HELP US  Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas...     EDIT  Edit this Article                Home » Categories  » Hobbies and Crafts » Games » Video Games » Multi Platform Games » Pokemon Video Games    Article Edit Discuss           Edit Article How to Find Shiny Pokémon  Six Methods: Chaining Breeding Fishing Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries SOS Chaining Ultra Wormholes Community Q&A  Shiny Pokémon are the Rolls Royces of the Pokémon world. These Pokémon are incredibly rare, and act as a status symbol for trainers that own some. Shiny Pokémon have different color schemes than standard Pokémon, but otherwise have identical stats and traits. Getting a Shiny Pokémon is a test of patience, especially if you want to create a whole team of Shinies, but the feeling of satisfaction will be worth it.         Steps    Method  1   Chaining      1   Understand the concept. Encountering a Shiny Pokémon in the wild is a 1/8192 chance. Although this chance is 1/4096 in the newer games, that's really, really low. Chaining is the practice of encountering the same Pokémon repeatedly to increase the chances that a Shiny version will appear. Breaking the chain at any time will reset your chances, making it a slightly tedious experience.  You cannot chain in Pokémon Black, White, Black 2, White 2, HeartGold, or SoulSilver as there is no PokéRadar available. You can chain for Shinies in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, X, Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon        2   Get yourself the PokéRadar. The PokéRadar becomes available after you have defeated the Elite Four. This tool will show you spots in the grass where you can encounter wild Pokémon, and is essential to creating a chain.  Register the PokéRadar to one of your buttons, and unregister any other items (bike, fishing rod, etc.). Using any other item while chaining, even by accident, will reset your chain.       3   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex, so it may take a while. Equipping it will increase your chances of encountering a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2 and White 2, X and Y, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Sun and Moon, & Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       4   Buy a lot of Super Repels. These items keep random Pokémon from attacking you, and are critical to keeping your chain intact. You should ALWAYS be under the effects of a Super Repel while chaining. It is recommended that you have at least 200 for extended chaining sessions.  Make sure you have a good supply of Pokéballs to catch the Shiny Pokémon. [1]        5   Prepare your team. Assemble a team of well-rounded Pokémon with lots of PP so that regardless of the type of shiny Pokémon you encounter, you will always have someone in your team to beat it. You can use the PP remaining to count your chain as well.  It will really help to have a Pokémon that knows False Swipe, so you can lower the HP of the Shiny Pokémon to 1 without knocking it out.  Having a Pokémon with Sleep or Paralyze will also make more difficult Pokémon easier to capture.       6   Decide on your target. Shiny Pokémon appear in the same locations as their regular versions. This means that you should go to a location where you can find normal versions of the Shiny Pokémon you want.     7   Find a large patch of grass. To make chaining easier, you will want to find a patch of grass that is at least 5x5 tiles. This will give you enough room to walk around without breaking your chain, since leaving the patch at any time will break your chain.  Some guides recommend finding patches that are 9x9.       8   Move to the middle of the patch. This will give you the most room to move in any direction.     9   Take your first Super Repel, and then use the PokéRadar to make patches of grass start shaking. Make sure to pay attention to HOW the grass shakes; there are three different ways that the grass can shake. Note the way that the patch you enter is shaking.     10   Walk into your first shaking patch. This will start a battle. If the Pokémon is the type that you want to get as Shiny, KO it to start your chain. If it's not, finish the battle and then walk 50 steps to reset your PokéRadar and start again.     11   Look for the next patch that is shaking the same way as the first one. After KOing the first Pokémon, move onto the next shaking patch to continue the chain. There are several very important aspects to keep in mind:  The next patch must be at least 4 tiles away from you (the numbers vary from guide to guide, but this number is a safe number that will keep your chain active).  The next patch must be shaking the same way that the previous patch was.  If the patch you pick is at the edge of the grass area, you will need to reset your PokéRadar after the fight. Do this by walking 50 steps without fighting and then using it again. Be sure to not leave the grassy area!       12   Repeat the process to raise your chain. Keep finding patches of grass to keep encountering the same Pokémon. Each time you defeat one, your chain will increase by 1. You can either make a tally on a piece of paper or use a Pokémon with a high PP attack to act as a counter. Increase your chain until you get to 40.  If your chain breaks for any reason, you'll have to start over.  Saving your game or quitting will break your chain.  Using the Roller Skates will break your chain.  Leaving the field will break your chain.  Fleeing a battle will break your chain.  Encountering any other Pokémon will break your chain.       13   Start resetting your PokéRadar to try to make shiny patches appear. Once you've reached a 40 chain, your odds are as high as they are going to get. You can now start resetting your PokéRadar until a shiny patch of shaking grass appears. Shiny patches will start appearing in about 1 out of 50 resets. Reset your PokéRadar every 50 steps to cycle through patches as quickly as possible. [2]  Once you've gotten your chain to 40, it can still take a significant amount of time to make a shiny patch appear.       14   Start the fight. Once you see the shiny patch, congratulations! You've summoned a Shiny Pokémon. All that's left to do is capture the Shiny Pokémon found inside. You can capture them just like you would a regular Pokémon. Make sure you don't knock it out! [3]                Method  2   Breeding      1   Obtain a Pokémon from another real-life region. The key to breeding a Shiny Pokémon is to breed Pokémon from two different regions. For example, if you live in the USA, obtain a Pokémon from Japan or Europe. Make sure to obtain the Pokémon that you want to get a Shiny version of.  This breeding method, also known as the Masuda method, is only available in Pokémon Diamond, Pearl, Platinum, HeartGold, SoulSilver, Black, White, Black 2, White 2, X, and Y, Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon  The easiest way to get a Pokémon from another region is to trade with someone. There are several popular trading sites online that can make this a fairly simple process, such as PokéBay and Reddit's Pokémon Trading subreddit.  The two Pokémon must be able to breed normally with each other. This means they must be the same species or share an Egg Group, and are opposite genders. If the Pokémon you want to breed is genderless, then you will need to breed it with a Ditto.  You can tell what region the Pokémon is from by looking at its PokéDex entry. In the upper-right corner, there will be a three-letter abbreviation for the region the Pokémon is from (JPN, FRE, ITA, etc.). If there is nothing there, then the Pokémon is from your own region.       2   Equip the Shiny Charm. You receive the Shiny Charm after completing your Pokédex. Equipping it will raise the chances that the egg that hatches contains a Shiny Pokémon.  The Shiny Charm is only available in Black 2, White 2, X, and Y.       3   Put both Pokémon in the Day Care. Depending on their compatibility, the chance of you receiving an egg from the pairing can be anywhere from 70% down to 20%. The game calculates the chance for an egg every 256 steps you take in the world.  You can increase the speed by riding your bike instead of walking.       4   Receive your egg. Once you get an egg, you'll need to hatch it. This can take a little while, and you won't know what's inside until it hatches. By breeding Pokémon from two different regions, your chances for a Shiny go from 1/8192 to 1/1024 (8x more likely). [4]           Method  3   Fishing      1   Understand how fishing streaks work. Pokémon X and Y introduced the concept of "fishing streaks". This requires you to continuously hook wild Pokémon without pulling up nothing or messing up the reel timing. Increasing your streak will increase the chances of catching a Shiny.     2   Gather your equipment. Make sure you have plenty of PokéBalls, as well as a fishing rod. You don't need special rods to perform streaks, but the rod you use will determine the level and type of Pokémon that you can catch.     3   Prepare your party. You will need Pokémon that can beat any Pokémon that you catch on the rod. You will also want a Pokémon with "Suction Cups" or "Sticky Hold" to be the first Pokémon in your party. This will increase the odds of hooking a wild Pokémon, which is essential for fishing streaks.     4   Find a good location. You can increase your chances for hooking a Pokémon by fishing in an enclosed water tile. For example, if you're fishing from the back of a Pokémon, try to find a tile that is surrounded by the land, a rock, you, and an unfishable deep water tile.     5   Start fishing. Once you've found a good spot, cast your line to start fishing. Press "A" as soon as you see the notice that you have a Pokémon on the line. Any of the following messages or actions will cause the streak to end:  "Nothing seems to be biting..." - This is a random occurrence, but can be mitigated by fishing in an enclosed spot.  "No! You reeled in too fast!" - You pressed the A button too soon.  "No! You reeled in too slow!" - You pressed the A button too late.  Leaving the area.  Starting a battle outside of fishing.  Quitting the game.       6   Keep trying. As long as you are successfully hooking Pokémon, your streak will increase. This will increase the odds of finding a Shiny, up to a certain point. Because it is random, there is still the chance that you will not find a Shiny, even after successfully catching numerous Pokémon with your rod.          Method  4   Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries      1   Save right before picking your starting Pokémon or starting a Legendary battle. There is a very small chance that the Pokémon you pick will be Shiny. Save right before picking or starting the battle.     2   Pick the Pokémon or start the fight with the Legendary. If the Pokémon is not Shiny, restart your game.  This will not work on Legendaries in Pokémon X, Y, and some Legendary Pokémon in Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.       3   Load your save and try again. This is a long and very time consuming process. Some people have reported it taking over 1000 tries. If you keep trying, however, you may be able to get a Shiny starter or Legendary.  If the Legendary fight is one where the Pokémon will automatically run, it will still be Shiny when you meet it later.            Method  5   SOS Chaining      1   Load up your copy of Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon. This will only work on these games.     2   Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well. If it knows moves such as Explosion or Double Edge, then make sure to prepare for it. Check if the Pokémon can call for help--if not, then this method won't work on it. To counter self-destructing moves, use a Pokémon with the ability Damp. To counter recoil moves, use Skill Swap with a Pokémon with the ability Rock Head or use a Ghost type, as these moves are usually Normal-type.     3   Get some Adrenaline Orbs to allow easier chaining. They increase the odds of Pokémon calling for help. Having Pokémon call for help more will increase the speed of finding your shiny.     4   Have a Pokemon with the move False Swipe or Hold Back on your team. False Swipe is TM54, and a wide array of Pokémon can learn it.     5   Encounter the target Pokémon you want the shiny of. It has to be a Pokémon you can encounter naturally in the wild, so Ultra Beasts, the Tapus, and Legendary Pokémon will not work with this method.     6   Once you find your target, lower its HP to 50% or less. Make sure not to knock it out. At low HP, the Pokémon will start to call for help. This is the start of your hunt.     7   Knock out every Pokémon that is called that is NOT shiny whenever a new Pokémon is called into battle. You can tell if it's not shiny if it stays the same color as usual.     8   Switch Pokemon every 30 to 100 SOS calls. Do so by using False Swipe on the next Pokémon called and knock out the original caller. Knock out the original caller when it's running out of moves--this is why you need to prepare. However, do not swap callers if the other Pokémon isn't the same species as the one you are hunting for.     9   Rinse and repeat until you find the shiny, then catch it. The shiny will sparkle as it enters the battlefield.          Method  6   Ultra Wormholes      1   Start up your Pokemon Ultra Sun or Ultra Moon game. This method only works for these games.     2   (Optional tip) Go to the Game Freak Headquarters on Akala Island. After you have completed the main story mode and defeated the Elite-Four, you can choose either to change how you control Solgaleo/ Lunala through the Ultra Wormhole through two options. 1. Motion Controls or 2. Circle-Pad Controls. This is for better accuracy if you are not comfortable using motion controls.     3   Go to the Altar of the Sun/or Moon. You need to have successfully defeated the Elite-Four to and completed the story mode.     4   Enter through the wormhole. This is located in the front of the Sun/Moon symbol on the ground. Choose Enter the Ultra Wormhole.     5   Catching the shiny Pokemon. There are 20 Pokemon you can catch shiny. You have a higher chance of encountering a shiny Pokemon if you travel farther into the Ultra Wormhole. The more rings a hole has, the rarer the Pokemon. But be careful! If you see a Wormhole with three rings and more smaller rings, that indicates a legendary Pokemon. Unless you are shiny hunting a legendary, do not enter through this Wormhole. See Getting Shiny Starters and Legendaries for catching legendary Pokemon in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.             Community Q&A      Search    Add New Question      What is the Horde Hunting method?        Bun bun     This is when you repeatedly use Sweet Scent or Honey to encounter hordes of Pokémon. People view this as an efficient method, as there are 5 Pokémon in a horde, so it makes you find a shiny 5 times as fast!   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 6  Helpful 40           Will the sweet scent method work to find a shiny Pokemon?    wikiHow Contributor   In Oras and X/Y, yes. You'll get a herd of Pokemon, and your luck to find a shiny ups to 5/4096. I got some of my own shinies with this method, and those hunts were the shortest.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 16  Helpful 58           I want a shiny starter! How can I decrease my chances of having to restart 1000 times?    wikiHow Contributor   Try breeding a starter. It might be expensive, but If you mange to get a female starter, you can use method two. You only have 1 in 8 chance to get a female starter though, so remember to use your SRs and save.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 14  Helpful 46           Do I continue hatching eggs if I don't get a shiny Pokemon?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 2  Helpful 11           I'm trying to get a shiny through Masuda method breeding. Does having one of the parents be a shiny?        Bun bun     No. The Masuda method is simply breeding 2 Pokémon from different places in the world.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 5  Helpful 16           Are Legendaries in Or/As (Groudon/Kyogre) shiny locked?     Audreywozniak    Yes. You cannot catch a shiny Groudon or Kyogre without hacking the game code or trading with someone who hacked the game code to get one.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 37           Can a regular Pokemon evolve to a shiny one?    wikiHow Contributor   No, they cannot. You have to either encounter one in the wild, or hatch one. However, shiny Pokemon do evolve into their next evolution's shiny form.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 15  Helpful 33           How can I get a Shiny easily?    wikiHow Contributor   There's no "super easy" way to get a shiny Pokemon --  they'd be a lot less rare if there was. However, some of the easier ways are chain fishing (don't move from your spot while you fish, and have a suction cup/sticky hold Pokemon at the front of your party); horde encounters in X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire (use the move Sweet Scent or the item Honey); and the Friend Safari in X and Y (not the Safari Zone in other games. Pokemon in the Friend Safari have a 1/512 chance to be shiny, but you need to add friends on your 3DS). Additionally, the Shiny Charm raises your odds by 300%, but it can only be obtained after you've completed the National (not regional) Dex in Gens 5 and 6.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 8  Helpful 18           What do they mean by other regions?        Lugia2453     It means another country/geographical area outside of the one in which you live.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 19  Helpful 33           Will an English and a Spanish Pokemon have a higher chance to create a shiny just like an English and Japanese breeding together?        Bun bun     Yes.   Thanks!   Yes  No    Not Helpful 17  Helpful 27         Show more answers     Ask a Question   200 characters left  Include your email address to get a message when this question is answered.  Submit       Already answered  Not a question  Bad question  Other                Tips    Don't know what to hunt for? Try Caterpie. It can be used in Masuda Method breeding, can be chained on X and Y, and can call for help in Sun and Moon. Chain fishing for Remoraid is quick and easy too, as it is very common.       Warnings    Make sure you know the Pokémon you're hunting well, as it may knock itself out if you're not prepared.  Don't use moves in SOS chaining that will hit both opposing Pokémon. You may accidentally knock it out.  None of these methods are guaranteed to get you a Shiny Pokémon. All they do is increase your chances of finding one. Finding Shiny Pokémon will still boil down to lots of luck and patience.  Some Pokémon will never be shiny by legitimate means. This is what fans call "shiny locked."        Edit Related wikiHows       How to Randomize a Pokémon Game      How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions      How to Evolve Magikarp      How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team      How to Create Your Own Pokémon      How to Make Your Own Pokémon Game      How to Hatch Pokémon Eggs      How to Evolve Pichu      How to Breed Pokémon      How to EV Train Your Pokémon       Sources and Citations      ↑  http://www.psypokes.com/lab/shiny.php    ↑  http://www.smogon.com/ingame/guides/chaining    ↑  http://www.reddit.com/r/pokemon/comments/1ot6ex/chaining_tutorial/    ↑  http://www.usgamer.net/articles/how-to-get-a-shiny-pokemon-in-pokemon-x-and-y      Show more... (1)                Article Info   Categories: Pokemon Video Games  In other languages:  Русский: достать сияющего покемона , Português: Encontrar Pokémons Shiny , Español: encontrar un Pokémon variocolor , Deutsch: Shiny Pokemon finden , Bahasa Indonesia: Menemukan Shiny Pokemon , Français: trouver un Pokémon chromatique , Italiano: Trovare i Pokemon Cromatici , Nederlands: Een Shiny Pokémon bemachtigen    Edit  Send fan mail to authors      Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 643,248 times.   Did this article help you?   Yes  No                 Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy .     84% of readers found this article helpful .                       19 votes - 84%   Click a star to add your vote   84% of people told us that this article helped them.       Co-authors: 43    Updated:   Views: 643,248       Quick Tips            Related Articles How to Randomize a Pokémon Game How to Evolve Eevee Into All Its Evolutions How to Evolve Magikarp How to Create a Balanced Pokémon Team       Did this article help you?    Yes   No       Thanks for letting us know.                  Home   About wikiHow   Jobs   Terms of Use     Site Map     Mobile view                 Help answer questions   Learn more                238        Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Odds Increased to 1/1000 + Graphics:Effects)                 eManu123436              Loading...        Unsubscribe from eManu123436?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 3.8K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   93,608 views         274   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     275    134   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     135            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Oct 12, 2013 The odds of finding a shiny pokemon in x and y have been decreased to 1/1000! (Edit: the information in the video has been proven wrong-the XY Shiny odds are 1/4096) Also, the shiny starters have been shown, and the graphics and effects of shiny pokemon in battle can be seen now! Thanks for watching! If my username is not emanu123436 or Pokemontrainermanu, that not only means I was rude enough to steal Manu's video, but I was so dumb that I didn't even take this part out of the description. Anyway, if you guys are liking the videos, subscribe for more and more pokemon videos! I will be uploading all sorts of videos, from game challenges to cool facts and more..     Game   Pokémon X and Y - 2013 ( YouTube Gaming )     Category   Gaming     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       3 Ways to Get a Shiny Pokémon in X & Y - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 7:49.  TamashiiHiroka  3,227,003 views     7:49               EPIC FAIL: Shiny Miltank in Pokemon Y after 4390 Random Encounters  - Duration: 5:01.  eManu123436  164,668 views     5:01      [First Live On Youtube] Shiny Fennekin After 939 SRs! (Pokémon X BQ#1!)  - Duration: 12:57.  Pleiʌdes  194,923 views     12:57      How to get shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (All Methods/Updated Version)  - Duration: 25:24.  Mulvone  2,150,273 views     25:24      Ed Edd n Eddy Live Stream 24/7 -  Ed Edd n Eddy Fullscreen 720p #1    Ed Edd n Eddy Live 24/7  1,322 watching Live now          Top 10 Pokémon X & Y Mysteries - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:39.  TamashiiHiroka  2,208,442 views     9:39      All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Including Shiny Xerneas and Shiny Yveltal) So Far  - Duration: 1:23.  eManu123436  110,738 views     1:23      Shiny Pokemon  - Duration: 9:42.  eManu123436  21,659 views     9:42      Top 10 Signs That You MIGHT be Addicted To Pokemon!  - Duration: 16:21.  SilverLeagueNetworks  934,866 views     16:21      Top 5 Coolest Looking Shiny Pokemon in X and Y  - Duration: 4:34.  ABrandonToThePast  884,082 views     4:34      Kanto Gym Leader Conspiracy (Theory)  - Duration: 1:51.  eManu123436  6,177 views     1:51      All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (FINAL EDITION: Xerneas, Yveltal + Zygarde)  - Duration: 1:56.  eManu123436  46,451 views     1:56      Top 10 Shiny Pokemon: Kanto  - Duration: 6:17.  eManu123436  28,917 views     6:17      Top 10 Creepy Things in Pokémon  - Duration: 8:47.  TheJWittz  5,662,591 views     8:47      Random Horde Shiny! Shiny Durant in X Version!!!!! | TheSupremeRk9s  - Duration: 7:36.  TheSupremeRk9s  65,728 views     7:36      Top 10 Shiny Pokémon - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 9:37.  TamashiiHiroka  1,314,719 views     9:37      Pokémon X and Y - Where To Catch/Get Torchic With A Mega Stone  - Duration: 3:20.  FusionZGamer  628,408 views     3:20      Top 10 Best Pokeballs (Coolest Designs)  - Duration: 6:33.  eManu123436  22,399 views     6:33      Pokemon X and Y: Shiny Raggenrola in a Horde, Random Encounter  - Duration: 6:58.  iaTGamers  14,967 views     6:58      Pokemon Theory: The Pokedex Was Already Completed Before Red?!  - Duration: 8:47.  ProtoMario  1,344,725 views     8:47     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Odds Increased to 1/1000 + Graphics:Effects)                 eManu123436              Loading...        Unsubscribe from eManu123436?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 3.8K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   93,608 views         274   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     275    134   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     135            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Oct 12, 2013 The odds of finding a shiny pokemon in x and y have been decreased to 1/1000! (Edit: the information in the video has been proven wrong-the XY Shiny odds are 1/4096) Also, the shiny starters have been shown, and the graphics and effects of shiny pokemon in battle can be seen now! Thanks for watching! If my username is not emanu123436 or Pokemontrainermanu, that not only means I was rude enough to steal Manu's video, but I was so dumb that I didn't even take this part out of the description. Anyway, if you guys are liking the videos, subscribe for more and more pokemon videos! I will be uploading all sorts of videos, from game challenges to cool facts and more..     Game   Pokémon X and Y - 2013 ( YouTube Gaming )     Category   Gaming     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       3 Ways to Get a Shiny Pokémon in X & Y - Tamashii Hiroka  - Duration: 7:49.  TamashiiHiroka  3,227,003 views     7:49               EPIC FAIL: Shiny Miltank in Pokemon Y after 4390 Random Encounters  - Duration: 5:01.  eManu123436  164,668 views     5:01      [First Live On Youtube] Shiny Fennekin After 939 SRs! (Pokémon X BQ#1!)  - Duration: 12:57.  Pleiʌdes  194,923 views     12:57      How to get shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (All Methods/Updated Version)  - Duration: 25:24.  Mulvone  2,150,273 views     25:24      Ed Edd n Eddy Live Stream 24/7 -  Ed Edd n Eddy Fullscreen 720p #1    Ed Edd n Eddy Live 24/7  1,322 watching Live now          All Shiny Pokemon in Pokemon X and Y (Including Shiny Xerneas and Shiny Yveltal) So Far  - Duration: 1:23.  eManu123436  110,738 views     1:23      Pokemon X & Y- Dusk Stones Locations  - Duration: 3:40.  EX PEG  492,427 views     3:40      LIVE! Shiny Froakie In Pokemon X/Y after 2,605 SR's! (w/facecam) [Capture Card]  - Duration: 15:03.  TheUnderdog2020  232,873 views     15:03      Live Shiny Cyndaquil Heartgold  550~ Soft Resets  - Duration: 15:00.  Otaku  15,249 views     15:00      The Best Wonder Trade Ever  - Duration: 1:28.  Bimbes McFly  333,430 views     1:28      Pokemon May vs Drew  - Duration: 3:30.  Soraya Thakoersingh  275,160 views     3:30      How to get a Shiny Starter in Pokemon Black  - Duration: 8:11.  Pokemonboii15  49,457 views     8:11      Pokemon X and Y - Starter Facts  - Duration: 3:56.  Aniki Pokemon  21,400 views     3:56      Pokemon X and Y How to make money fast!  - Duration: 2:05.  ShinySaber  243,306 views     2:05      Live Reaction!!! Random Shiny Bunnelby in Pokemon Y  - Duration: 3:45.  Dragon Tamer Puck  9,612 views     3:45      (183rd egg) Shiny Eevee hatched in Pokemon Y with the Masuda method  - Duration: 1:31.  SlickScizor  10,471 views     1:31      Shiny horde encounter in pokemon Y by using sweet scent method  - Duration: 3:35.  Leafy Taichou  9,548 views     3:35      How to Chain Pokemon in X and Y Chaining for Shiny Pokemon  - Duration: 16:55.  Alex Ogloza  122,876 views     16:55      Pokemon X & Y TM30 Shadow Ball Location  - Duration: 2:31.  Hitemup  178,052 views     2:31      When a Noob uses Command Blocks - Minecraft  - Duration: 3:23.  ExplodingTNT  2,446,126 views     3:23     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                     Sections      News      Reviews      Guides      Analysis      Opinion      Features     $ Deals   RPG Podcast        Like and Follow us:  Facebook  Twitter  Twitch  YouTube            Sign in  Create an account                    How to Get a Shiny Pokemon In Pokemon X and Y  Want a team bursting with shiny Pokemon? Here are three ways to make it happen!   Guide by Cassandra Khaw , 10/24/2013 .      Pokemon is serious business. You enslave them. You breed them. You coerce them into waging wars they have no stake in. But as serious as Game Freak's much beloved simulacrum of antagonistic animal husbandry can be, it pales in comparison to the gravitas of distinguishing yourself from the plebeian masses. Everyone knows that there can only be one Pokemon master.  Still, with more than four million copies of the latest iteration already sold, how does one make one's star shine brighter? Building the ultimate team takes time, effort and research while bribing the Elite Four in exchange for validation would probably require at least a fair understanding of transdimensional travel. In light of all that, here's my suggestion:  Get a shiny Pokemon .  Heck, why stop there? Get a full team. Bewilder your opponents with aesthetic opulence. Humble them with this testament to your luck and determination. Pizzazz wins battles, not hard work and skill. If you're new to the Pokemon franchise and have no idea what I'm talking about, shiny Pokemon are like the Holy Grail (except more accessible and arguably less useful.) In terms of function, they're identical to their more pedestrian cousins. Looks-wise, however, that's where it gets interesting. Shiny Pokemon are uniformly of a weird, often striking pigmentation. And sparkly. Slightly.    As you may have already deduced, they're also ridiculously rare. The chances of breeding a shiny or discovering one in the wild is a dismal 1/8192. Fortunately, there are several ways to circumnavigate the appalling odds.  Breeding for Success  Need more Pokemon help?  Check out these other USgamer Pokemon articles. We have tons of hints, tips and information on how to get the best out of your team – and become a Pokemon master.  Pokemon X and Y Multiplayer Guide: Tips & Tricks, Best Pokemon Teams, Competitive Meta  Hacking Pokemon X & Y: Now With 100% Chance of Shiny Pokemon?  What are the Strongest, Most Competitive Pokemon That'll Help You Build the Best Team  How Do You Know If You Have the Best Pokemon X & Y Team?  Pokemon X and Y Post Game: What to Do After You've Beaten the Elite Four?  More Starter Pokemon, Less Starting Pokemon: We Can Make Pokémon X & Y's Wonder TradeBetter!  Named after Game Freak director Junichi Masuda, the Masuda Method is a technique that was implemented as an attempt to encourage players to perform more transcontinental trades. Smogon University, a website dedicated to the fine art of competitive Pokemon battling, was the first to figure out the method and breeders everywhere have been using it ever since. Just how good is this technique? With the help of the Masuda method, the chances of breeding a shiny Pokemon in Generation IV were increased by 5. By the next iteration, that success rate had shot up to 6 - a definite improvement over the baseline. Unfortunately, though many claim it's still a viable strategy, no official word has been released in regards to whether or not the Masuda Method can still be utilized in the current-gen Pokemon games and if the success rate has escalated even further.  For those willing to risk it, the Masuda Method is pretty simple: breed two Pokemon from different geographical backgrounds (The little tags next to their names will inform you exactly where they're from) together.    That's really it. At least, in regards to necessary knowledge. There's a thread on Smogon that unpacks the exact mechanics behind it ; you can read it if you're keen on understanding specifics.  Now, go have your Pokemon make beautiful music together  Don't break the chain!  'Chaining' Pokemon can be a frustrating chore. If you're good, it can be a short-cut to triumph. If you're not, it might be a broken 3DS screen. The idea behind chaining is reflective of its name: it's the act of meeting the same Pokemon, again and again, in unbroken succession. Purportedly, doing so will significantly increase the success rate of encountering a shiny Pokemon, raising the odds from a horrific 1/8192 to a far more palatable 1/200.  Though guides on chaining are plentiful, u/Cpctherman from Reddit's dissertation on the process is one of the better ones I've read. ( Smogon's guide is even more educational but also exponentially more ponderous a read.) The general gist of it, for those who would rather keep it simple, is this:   You need a PokeRadar, which is only available after the Elite Four.  Super repels are essential. Your "chain" can be broken if you run into a Pokemon other than the one you're hunting.  Always try to find a patch of grass that is at least 5vs5.  Make sure all your transportation devices have been put away. Do not skate or cycle through the grass.  When you use the PokeRadar, you'll see patches of grass shake. Take note of whether it is a gentle gyration or something more vigorous.  When you find the Pokemon you're attempting to chain, knock it out and be sure to walk into patches that reverberate the same way as the swathe of green that surrendered the initial Pokemon.  Only enter patches that are at least 4 spaces horizontally or vertically from you.  Remember to reset your PokeRadar if you KO a Pokemon on the edge of your chosen field.  Don't get overambitious. You only need to succeed at getting a chain of 40. After that, you just have to reset your PokeRadar till you discover a shiny patch - pleasant sounds will indicate its manifestation.  Make you sure you can actually catch the shiny when you find it. I recommend not being a miser with the Pokeballs.   If landbound Pokemon don't float your boat, you can opt out and go fish instead. Performing a fishing chain is questionably easier. Once you've succeeded in getting the fisherman from Route 16 to divulge that rare Pokemon can be acquired through consecutive fishing, you can be on your way. What you have to do then is ensure that you do not move from your fishing spot as any superfluous motion will break your streak. Pulling the rod too early or failing to get a nibble will also destroy your chances. Needless to say, having a Pokemon with Suction Cups as your lead Pokemon is a good idea. Confused? Here's a helpful video:    Carry a four-leaf clover  In real life. Not in the game. In real life. While you're at it, you may also want to solicit the services of a Maneki Neko, get a rabbit to donate a foot and attempt prayer. Because having Lady Luck smile on you is the only other way you're going to get those shiny Pokemon, folks!  (Don't hurt me.)  This article may contain links to online retail stores.  If you click on one and buy the product we may receive a small commission.  For more information, go here .      Jump to comments                 Related Tags    gamefreak  howto  Nintendo  Pokemon  Pokemon X  Pokemon Y  shiny  The Pokemon Company       Reactions 11       Do not want  0      Fanboy  2      Fantastic  7      I was amused  1      Interesting  0      Meh  0      Surprised!  1      Want  0      Sign in to react      Comments 21        Sign in to post a comment.    Username     Password     Sign in   Got a Eurogamer account? Your details will work here too!       Need an account?   Create an account. They're free!   Forgotten your login details?   Recover your account here.     Order   Newest  Oldest  Best  Worst         #1  LunarKnite  4 years ago     Discovered the consecutive fishy for shinies a few days ago on GameFAQS. Tried it out and got to a streak of 58 without getting a shiny before I messed up. T_T  Haven't gathered the patience to try past 20 since, but I shall get my first shiny someday...   Sign in to Reply       #2  Giever  4 years ago     "Show the world you're the one true Pokemon Master than with a team of shiny Pokemon."  There's a typo here after 'Pokemon Master'. I think you should want to drop the 'than' (presumably a remnant from some different phrasing of the sentence).   Sign in to Reply       #3  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @Giever THIS IS WHY YOU SHOULD NEVER EDIT HALF-ASLEEP. (Thanks! Fixed that.)   Sign in to Reply       #4  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @LunarKnite The Masuda Method sounds like it may be more tolerable. At least, it's something that won't make you actively hate yourself a lot. :C   Sign in to Reply       #5  LunarKnite  4 years ago     @cassandrakhaw Tried it again and got to 51 before accidentally pressing the button too fast. Still no shiny. You may be right, but at least this way is more interactive than running around to hatch eggs.   Sign in to Reply       #6  strongbadsings  4 years ago     I remember after clearing nearly all of Diamond, I decided to delve into Shiny hunting and EV training...  Until I found out exactly what it involved. Who has the time for this kind of stuff? Kudos to those who manage to do all this, but still... geez.   Sign in to Reply       #7  cassandrakhaw  4 years ago     @joshnickerson o_o Forget THAT, I want to know how and why people took the time to find these things /and/ verify the science of it works.   Sign in to Reply       #8  edsonlb  4 years ago     www.poketracer.com may help!   Sign in to Reply       #9  jack1388  4 years ago     Used the encounter power and the Pokemon with suction cups...and my fourth try with the chain fishing, on battle number 13 & 22, I got a shiney horsea and skrelp (respectively)   Sign in to Reply       #10  kyletolbert36  4 years ago     I caught a shiny dragalge after 13 casts! I've spent over 300 hours trying the Masuda method and it kind of upsets me that I got a shiny that fast fishing. But I am not complaining, considering this is my first shiny (excluding the red gyarados) also I did have an inkay in my party. Maybe you could post some good fishing spots you know of? Edited December 2013 by kyletolbert36   Sign in to Reply       #11  tammyireland40  4 years ago     best chaining spots?   Sign in to Reply       #12  zencharm  4 years ago     Masuda Method is my favorite. I got a Shiny Phantump from an egg on my first try.   Sign in to Reply       #13  soullessunitato  4 years ago     I'm really loving the shinies in X and Y. This is legitimately the only Pokemon game where I actually managed to get shinies on my own. I have 5, 2 of them are in Black, 1 from the GTS (Charizard) and 1 from a trade with an old internet friend of mine (Alakazam). The other 3 are in X. I have a shiny Octillery from chain fishing, an Umbreon from Masuda Method, and a Kirlia from Wonder Trade.  I'd say my favorite is Masuda, because you don't have to focus so much on it, you can kind of zone out while you're hatching eggs, listen to music, watch TV, even play another game, because you only need to focus once the eggs start to hatch. The amount of eggs depends, but I got my Eevee on egg #260, which is considerably long for Masuda, actually. Most people I heard of got under 100. But I can say the increased odds do help, I tried in Black, I got like 300 eggs hatched and nothing, but I got something in X, so yaaaaaaay. :p  Now, chainfishing is cool too. This is the thing, is that the shinies never come when you expect them. I had just been derping around with my rod in Azure Bay when I found a shiny Remoraid. I had a chain of 10-30 and I was kind of shocked. One of my friends actually got a Luvdisc from chaining yesterday, and he only had a chain of 2! I'm not certain of the exact figures, but my guess is that that's practically the same odds as a random encounter. There was also that one from Wonder Trade, too. That was just a good luck day for me, I was in Wonder Trade at the right time and got matched with the right person. I had just hatched shiny Eevee the day before and I was clearing out my boxes and BAM! Shiny Ralts. I'm gonna have to Masuda Breed more often. I've never gotten a shiny from chains or RAs before. I have this possible bug with my game where after I KO a Pokemon in a chain sometimes, the radar music just stops and the regular route music plays, breaking my chain for ABSOLUTELY NO REASON. I don't do anything, I SWEAR it's my game glitching. Because of that bug, I don't chain in grass much. And random enounters... you don't even know how bad my luck is with RNGS, do you!? Hehe. Well, maybe my luck is looking up. I mean, I just got 3 shinies in 1 month, 2 in 2 days! All these people are saying finding shinies is too easy now. Listen, now the odds of shinies are high enough to be rare, but low enough for me to actually get some of the love as well. I'm working on more Masuda Breeding (for Vulpix this time), and it's really not that stressful, so when in doubt, hatch eggs! Then Wonder Trade them for more shinies!! :p   Sign in to Reply       #14  Phosphoradapokemonsu  3 years ago     Dont  ask me how, but I got a shiny clauncher in 2 tries for the chain fishing option. I was at the top left area of cyllage city in one of the glittery spots near the rocks. I think I used an old rod and the clauncher is now up for trade my trainer is Phosphora (duh) if you want it my friend code is 2062 - 9640 - 0606  <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><> YOU get a ride in the TARDIS, YOU get a ride in the TARDIS, EVERYONE GETS A RIDE IN THE TARDIS! Edited July 2014 by Phosphoradapokemonsu   Sign in to Reply       #15  Phosphoradapokemonsu  3 years ago     @tammyireland40 let us see, the purple flower patch in route 5, the giant yellow patch in Pokemon Village and other big patches of tall grass are good for the PokeRadar and small, rocky and unnoticeable places where there are sparkly tiles are good for chain fishing. I got a shiny clauncher at cyllage city in the rocky part of the top left area.   Sign in to Reply       #16  NDsnivy  3 years ago     @zencharm  So you like hatching eggs...  You must be very luck or something, because I've been trying for a shiny piplup recently. 845 eggs and counting, still no shinys.  ...and that's just on Piplup. If you count ALL of the eggs, then you're looking at around 3,000. XD  Well, I guess winning shinys from drawing contests will have to do...  ... for now.   Sign in to Reply       #17  karaleesears14  3 years ago     @Phosphoradapokemonsu mine is 4914-4582-8530 under either Kara or Karalee if you wanna add me... ^^   Sign in to Reply       #18  ethanswinehart79  2 years ago     @Giever Grammar police....   Sign in to Reply       #19  Hopley865  5 months ago     account easily. You will be needing an Apple ituneslogin.co bank card info. The technique is extremely   Sign in to Reply       #20  Sarah445  3 months ago     About the video clips you are viewing it could LiveNetTV streaming application is simply outstanding offering.   Sign in to Reply       #21  biharboard-ac-in  A month ago     mobro apk is a simple tool enabling videos and other interesting features   Sign in to Reply         More from USgamer        Hacking Pokemon X & Y: Now With 100% Chance of Shiny Pokemon?   As all the next-gen hullabaloo dies away, we check out what the Pokemon X and Y hacking community has been doing with Game Freak's baby.   By Cassandra Khaw     7  3              A New Breakthrough with Pokemon X/Y Hacking   We now know what Generation VI Pokemon's digital DNA look like. Yeah, science!   By Cassandra Khaw     2               Overwatch Retribution Event Guide - Uprising Start and End Dates, Overwatch Archives Details, New Loot Box Items, Retribution Content   The Overwatch Uprising event is back for 2018, under the new umbrella of the Overwatch Archives: Retribution heading.    By Hirun Cryer                   GTA 6 Rumors - GTA 6 Release Date, Is GTA 6 Returning to Vice City? Lead Character in GTA 6 - Everything we Know   GTA 6 could be merely a few years away, according to a new report, and it could feature a female lead for the first time in the series. This is a complete round-up of GTA 6 rumors, including info on the GTA 6 release date.    By Hirun Cryer                                         Covering the best in video gaming. News, previews and reviews of the latest Xbox One, PS4, PC, and Switch games. Plus features about classic retro consoles!  This site © 2018 Gamer Network.  All Rights Reserved. No part of this site or its content may be reproduced without the permission of the copyright holder.    Explore    News    Reviews    Guides    Analysis    Opinion    Features    Deals    RPG Podcast      Helpful links    Contact us    Latest comments    Staff    Tags    How we work    Review policy    Code of conduct    Terms and Conditions      Gamer Network   Eurogamer  Gamer's Edition  Jelly Deals  GamesIndustry  GamesIndustry Japan  Metabomb  NintendoLife  Push Square  Rock, Paper, Shotgun  USgamer  VG247     Follow us   Facebook  Twitter  Twitch  Youtube  RSS       Comments  Close        Read this article      Sign in to join the discussion or register for an account    Go, go, go!      Order   Newest  Oldest  Best  Worst                                                                                                                                                                   Subscribe         Search                Tech  Science  Games  Movies  Television  Comics  Anime  Culture  Deals        Can a Sex Robot Save Your Relationship? The Internet Is Toxic – Here Are Five Possible Cures Geek Deals: Dell XPS 8910 Quad-Core Desktop PC for $670 Facebook to Notify Users Affected by Cambridge Analytica Breach  More      Forget April Showers: This Month Brings Rare 'Jupiter Triangle' Simple Math Trick Helps Scientists Predict Climate Change Buzz Aldrin STILL Didn't See an Alien Ship in Space Japanese Snow Monkeys Love Hot Baths Just Like People Do  More      Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered 2 Rumored for Release in Late April Geek Plays: Yakuza 6 Batman is Now Telltale’s Best Franchise A Lot of Really Silly People Want Fortnite Banned  More      The History Of The Infinity Stones MCU News: The Russos Tease Bucky Fans, Brie Larson Lifts & More DC Movie News: What's Going On with Flashpoint, Deathstroke & New Gods MCU News: Latest Infinity War Rumors, and a Look at the Future  More      Legends of Tomorrow Brings it All Together for a Giant, Joyful Finale Character Moments and a Tense Ending are the Saviors of Once Upon a Time Let Geek Tell You What to Watch This Weekend Gotham Takes Just a Bit Too Long to Get Where It's Going  More      Stupid, Sexy Nightwing (Kotobukiya’s Ikemen Nightwing) Wailing Blade is the Executioner Sci-Fi Fantasy You Didn't Know You Needed Grief is a Graphic Novel Full of Magic and Compassion Buy This Comic: Isola #1  More      The Butt Detective Will Make A Stink About Any Mystery One Punch Man's Saitama Reacts to Merch of Himself Cosplay Gallery: Anime Boston 2018 New Attack On Titan: Lost Girls Trailer Dials Up The Action  More      Legoland Japan's Cherry Blossom Tree Is Nearly As Pretty As A Real One The Wacky Adventures of Ronald McDonald is a Fast Food Infinity War This Japanese Candy Factory Plays a Chorus of Kids Saying "Thank You" Reserve Your Spot at an All-Inclusive Space Hotel—for $9.5M  More      T-Shirt Tuesday: The Best Giant Monster Shirts Amazon Daily Deals: Insane Final Fantasy Art Book Geek Deals Roundup: $500 Ultrasharp 27-inch 4K Monitor with $200 gift ca... Geek Deals Roundup: Alienware GTX 1080 Gaming PC for $1,630, Save $200 o...  More                       Games    Pokémon X and Y: How to catch a shiny Pokémon   By James Plafke  10.18.2013 :: 4:05PM EDT  10.18.2013   @jplafke     This site may earn affiliate commissions from the links on this page. Terms of use .           The most elusive and desirable prize throughout the Pokémon series has always been a shiny version of your favorite pocket monster. Concerning Pokémon X and Y , rumors have been circulating that the shiny encounter rate has been adjusted to be more friendly. There are also a handful of strategies believed to increase your chances of running into a shiny, and one of them is as easy as pressing a button.  Tipping NPCs  Throughout the game, you’ll be offered the option to tip NPCs either $100, $500, or $1000. Many gamers around the internet are claiming that they ran into a shiny shortly after tipping an NPC $1000. The only shiny I have ever encountered in the wild throughout the series is a shiny Oddish, and I happened to run into it just after tipping the photographer outside of Parfum Palace.  After testing the theory at length after that shiny encounter, I have not run into another shiny as of yet. So, take the rumor with a grain of salt.   Masuda Method  Named after Game Freak producer Junichi Masuda, this method was programmed into the series beginning in Generation IV, Pokémon Diamond and Pearl . The normal rate to encounter a shiny in the wild or through breeding is 1/8192, or about a 0.01% chance. Using the Masuda Method, though, increases the probability. In Diamond and Pearl , the rate is multiplied by five, or about 1/1638. In Generation V — Black and White — the chance is multiplied by six, which is 1/1365. Though still quite low, both chances are much preferred to 1/8192.  The Masuda Method is simple enough to pull off, it just happens to be extraordinarily tedious. If two Pokémon of differing geographical regions are bred together (such as one from America and one from Japan), the more favorable Masuda percentage is applied to the resulting egg. Simple as that. The reason why this method is tedious is because breeding is tedious, as you have to continually mindlessly walk a ton of steps to hatch each egg. Granted, an increased shiny hatch rate is much more desirable to a 0.01% chance for a shiny encounter.  Poké Radar chaining  The Poké Radar is back in Pokémon X and Y ; you can obtain it from Professor Sycamore’s lab on the second floor after you beat the Elite Four. In previous iterations of the franchise, you could “chain” Pokémon using the radar, and if done correctly, you can detect shiny Pokémon in the grass. The method is tedious, but one of the only reliable ways to obtain a shiny critter. Poké Radar chaining has not yet been officially confirmed (normally via hackers looking over the games’ code) as a working method in the newest installments, but gamers have been reporting that it does work, seen in the video below.   The actual process is easy enough — you just activate the Poké Radar and tediously walk around until you see a glittering grass patch, as shown above. However, there are a ton of different little rules that apply to that walking around. In short, you create a chain by running into the same Pokémon over and over again. Each time you run into that very same Pokémon (for instance, you keep running into Oddish), your chain increases. When your chain increases, your chance to run into a shiny version of the chained Pokémon increases. The cap has always been set at 40, which increases your chance to run into a shiny from 0.01% to 0.5%.   When you use the Poké Radar, you’ll see various patches of grass shake, as demonstrated in the above video. To keep the chain going, you have to walk into a new patch of grass that shakes the same way your previous patch of grass shook. Another important part of chaining Pokémon involves using Repel items to ward off normal wild Pokémon. If you run into one of those, your chain is broken. Other weird actions also break the chain, such as moving into the patch of grass above (it appears behind, due to the perspective) your character’s head, or moving into a patch of grass that forms a corner (two edges of the patch do not touch other grass tiles).  Radar chaining is insanely in-depth, and if you’re going to try the practice, you can check out an equally in-depth guide over here .  Catching your shiny Pokémon  Other than the above three methods, there are so far no other discovered ways to increase the chances of catching a shiny Pokémon. The more players spend time with the game, the more likely it is that a new method will be discovered. However, shiny Pokémon are meant to be insanely rare, so don’t bet that Game Freak will have made obtaining one (not counting event giveaways ) something other than a chore.     Share  Facebook   Twitter   Linkedin   Pinterest   Reddit       Game Freak Nintendo Nintendo 2DS Nintendo 3DS Pokemon Pokemon X Pokemon Y shiny               Speak Your Mind           More in Games     04.09.2018 :: 3:45PM EDT :: Tony Polanco      Games    Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered 2 Rumored for Release in Late April      Games        04.09.2018 :: 11:00AM EDT :: Jordan Minor      Games    Geek Plays: Yakuza 6      Games        04.06.2018 :: 9:00AM EDT :: Jordan Minor      Games    Batman is Now Telltale’s Best Franchise      Games        04.05.2018 :: 12:45PM EDT :: Tony Polanco      Games    A Lot of Really Silly People Want Fortnite Banned      Games        04.05.2018 :: 9:00AM EDT :: K. Thor Jensen      Games    11 Video Games That Should Add A Battle Royale Mode      Games       More          This site may earn affiliate commissions from the links on this page. Terms of use .      subscribe to our newsletter:      This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time.                        The History Of The Infinity Stones     Movies               04.10.2018 :: 12:45PM EDT  Legends of Tomorrow Brings it All Together for a Giant, Joyful Finale      Television            04.10.2018 :: 11:00AM EDT  Can a Sex Robot Save Your Relationship?      Tech            04.10.2018 :: 10:00AM EDT  T-Shirt Tuesday: The Best Giant Monster Shirts      Deals       More                           Facebook  Twitter    About  Contact  Newsletters  Archive  Glossary  Advertise    More From Ziff Davis:  PCMag  Computer Shopper  ExtremeTech  AskMen  Everyday Health  IGN  Offers.com  Speedtest.net  TechBargains  Toolbox  What to Expect    Privacy Policy  Terms of Use  Advertise  Accessibility Statement       © 1996-2018 Ziff Davis, LLC. PCMag Digital Group Geek.com is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.              We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here .   ×   