         Conscription in the United States   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search      Young men registering for conscription during World War I in New York City , New York , on June 5, 1917.      Conscription     Military service  National service  Conscription crisis  Conscientious objector  Alternative civilian service    Conscription by country       v  t  e       Conscription in the United States , commonly known as the draft , has been employed by the federal government of the United States in five conflicts: the American Revolution , the American Civil War , World War I , World War II , and the Cold War (including both the Korean War and the Vietnam War ). The third incarnation of the draft came into being in 1940 through the Selective Training and Service Act . It was the country's first peacetime draft. [1] From 1940 until 1973, during both peacetime and periods of conflict, men were drafted to fill vacancies in the United States Armed Forces that could not be filled through voluntary means. The draft came to an end when the United States Armed Forces moved to an all-volunteer military force . However, the Selective Service System remains in place as a contingency plan ; all male civilians between the ages of 18 and 25 are required to register so that a draft can be readily resumed if needed. [2] United States Federal Law also provides for the compulsory conscription of men between the ages of 17 and 45 and certain women for militia service pursuant to Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution and 10 U.S. Code § 246. [3] [4] [5]     Contents    1  History   1.1  Colonial to 1862  1.2  Civil War  1.3  World War I   1.3.1  Opposition  1.3.2  Conscientious objectors    1.4  Interwar  1.5  World War II   1.5.1  Opposition  1.5.2  Conscientious objectors    1.6  Cold War  1.7  Vietnam War  1.8  End of conscription  1.9  Post-1980 draft registration    2  Health care personnel  3  Legality  4  Conscientious objection  5  Poverty Draft  6  Selective Service reforms  7  Conscription controversies since 2003  8  Non-citizens  9  See also  10  Footnotes  11  References and further reading   11.1  American Revolution  11.2  Civil War  11.3  World War I  11.4  World War II  11.5  Cold War and Vietnam  11.6  Recent    12  External links     History [ edit ]  See also: Conscientious objection in the United States § History  Colonial to 1862 [ edit ]  In colonial times , the Thirteen Colonies used a militia system for defense. Colonial militia laws—and after independence those of the United States and the various states—required able-bodied males to enroll in the militia, to undergo a minimum of military training, and to serve for limited periods of time in war or emergency. This earliest form of conscription involved selective drafts of militiamen for service in particular campaigns. Following this system in its essentials, the Continental Congress in 1778 recommended that the states draft men from their militias for one year's service in the Continental army; this first national conscription was irregularly applied and failed to fill the Continental ranks.  For long-term operations, conscription was occasionally used when volunteers or paid substitutes were insufficient to raise the needed manpower. During the American Revolutionary War , the states sometimes drafted men for militia duty or to fill state Continental Army units, but the central government did not have the authority to conscript except for purposes of naval impressment . President James Madison and his Secretary of War James Monroe unsuccessfully attempted to create a national draft of 40,000 men during the War of 1812 . [6] This proposal was fiercely criticized on the House floor by antiwar Congressman Daniel Webster of New Hampshire. [7]    The administration asserts the right to fill the ranks of the regular army by compulsion...Is this, sir, consistent with the character of a free government? Is this civil liberty? Is this the real character of our Constitution ? No, sir, indeed it is not...Where is it written in the Constitution, in what article or section is it contained, that you may take children from their parents, and parents from their children, and compel them to fight the battles of any war, in which the folly or the wickedness of government may engage it? Under what concealment has this power lain hidden, which now for the first time comes forth, with a tremendous and baleful aspect, to trample down and destroy the dearest rights of personal liberty?    Daniel Webster ( December 9, 1814 House of Representatives Address )    Civil War [ edit ]  Main articles: Union (American Civil War) and Confederate States of America  The United States first employed national conscription during the American Civil War . The vast majority of troops were volunteers; of the 2,100,000 Union soldiers, about 2% were draftees, and another 6% were substitutes paid by draftees. [8] [9]  The Confederacy had far fewer inhabitants than the Union , and Confederate President Jefferson Davis proposed the first conscription act on March 28, 1862; it was passed into law the next month. [10] Resistance was both widespread and violent, with comparisons made between conscription and slavery.     Rioters attacking a building during the New York anti-draft riots of 1863    Both sides permitted conscripts to hire substitutes to serve in their place. In the Union, many states and cities offered bounties and bonuses for enlistment. They also arranged to take credit against their draft quota by claiming freed slaves who enlisted in the Union Army.  Although both sides resorted to conscription, the system did not work effectively in either. [11] The Confederate Congress on April 16, 1862, passed an act requiring military service for three years from all males aged eighteen to thirty-five not legally exempt; it later extended the obligation. The U.S. Congress followed with the Militia Act of 1862 authorizing a militia draft within a state when it could not meet its quota with volunteers. [ citation needed ] This state-administered system failed in practice and in 1863 Congress passed the Enrollment Act , the first genuine national conscription law, setting up under the Union Army an elaborate machinery for enrolling and drafting men between twenty and forty-five years of age. Quotas were assigned in each state, the deficiencies in volunteers required to be met by conscription.  Still, men drafted could provide substitutes, and until mid-1864 could even avoid service by paying commutation money. Many eligible men pooled their money to cover the cost of any one of them drafted. Families used the substitute provision to select which member should go into the army and which would stay home. The other popular means of procuring a substitute was to pay a soldier whose period of enlistment was about to expire - the advantage of this method was that the Army could retain a trained veteran in place of a raw recruit. Of the 168,649 men procured for the Union Army through the draft, 117,986 were substitutes, leaving only 50,663 who had their personal services conscripted. There was much evasion and overt resistance to the draft, and the New York City draft riots were in direct response to the draft and were the first large-scale resistance against the draft in the United States.  The problem of Confederate desertion was aggravated by the inequitable inclinations of conscription officers and local judges. The three conscription acts of the Confederacy exempted certain categories, most notably the planter class , and enrolling officers and local judges often practiced favoritism, sometimes accepting bribes. Attempts to effectively deal with the issue were frustrated by conflict between state and local governments on the one hand and the national government of the Confederacy. [12]  World War I [ edit ]     A World War I era draft card.    In 1917 the administration of President  Woodrow Wilson decided to rely primarily on conscription, rather than voluntary enlistment, to raise military manpower for World War I when only 73,000 volunteers enlisted out of the initial 1 million target in the first six weeks of the war. [13] One claimed motivation was to head off the former President, Theodore Roosevelt , who proposed to raise a volunteer division, which would upstage Wilson; however, there is no evidence that even Roosevelt had the popularity to overcome the unpopular war, and also, since Wilson had just started his second term in office the former President's prospects for substantial political gain would seem dubious.  The Selective Service Act of 1917 was carefully drawn to remedy the defects in the Civil War system and—by allowing exemptions for dependency, essential occupations, and religious scruples—to place each man in his proper niche in a national war effort. The act established a "liability for military service of all male citizens"; authorized a selective draft of all those between 21 and 31 years of age (later from 18 to 45); and prohibited all forms of bounties, substitutions, or purchase of exemptions. Administration was entrusted to local boards composed of leading civilians in each community. These boards issued draft calls in order of numbers drawn in a national lottery and determined exemptions.  In 1917, 10 million men were registered. This was deemed to be inadequate, so age ranges were increased and exemptions reduced, and so by the end of 1918 this increased to 24 million men that were registered with nearly 3 million inducted into the military services, with little of the resistance that characterized the Civil War, thanks to a huge campaign by the government to build support for the war, and shut down newspapers and magazines that published articles against the war. [14] [15]     Secretary of War Newton Baker draws the first draft number on July 20, 1917.    The draft was universal and included blacks on the same terms as whites, although they served in different units. In all 367,710 black Americans were drafted (13.0% of the total), compared to 2,442,586 white (86.9%). Along with a general opposition to American involvement in a foreign conflict, Southern farmers objected to unfair conscription practices that exempted members of the upper class and industrial workers.  Draft boards were localized and based their decisions on social class: the poorest were the most often conscripted because they were considered the most expendable at home. African-Americans in particular were often disproportionately drafted, though they generally were conscripted as laborers and not sent into combat to avoid the tensions that would arise from mixing races in military units. Forms of resistance ranged from peaceful protest to violent demonstrations and from humble letter-writing campaigns asking for mercy to radical newspapers demanding reform. The most common tactics were dodging and desertion, and many communities sheltered and defended their draft dodgers as political heroes.  Nearly half a million immigrants were drafted, which forced the military to develop training procedures that took ethnic differences into account. Military leaders invited Progressive reformers and ethnic group leaders to assist in formulating new military policies. The military attempted to socialize and Americanize young immigrant recruits, not by forcing "angloconformity", but by showing remarkable sensitivity and respect for ethnic values and traditions and a concern for the morale of immigrant troops. Sports activities, keeping immigrant groups together, newspapers in various languages, the assistance of bilingual officers, and ethnic entertainment programs were all employed. [16]  Opposition [ edit ]      Blessed are the Peacemakers by George Bellows , The Masses , 1917    The Conscription Act of 1917 was passed in June. Conscripts were court-martialed by the Army if they refused to wear uniforms, bear arms, perform basic duties, or submit to military authority. Convicted objectors were often given long sentences of 20 years in Fort Leavenworth . [17] In 1918 Secretary Baker created the Board of Inquiry to question the conscientious objectors' sincerity. [18]  Military tribunals tried men found by the Board to be insincere for a variety of offenses, sentencing 17 to death , 142 to life imprisonment , and 345 to penal labor camps. [18]  In 1917, a number of radicals and anarchists , including Emma Goldman , challenged the new draft law in federal court, arguing that it was a direct violation of the Thirteenth Amendment's prohibition against slavery and involuntary servitude. The Supreme Court unanimously upheld the constitutionality of the draft act in the Selective Draft Law Cases on January 7, 1918. The decision said the Constitution gave Congress the power to declare war and to raise and support armies. The Court, relying partly on Vattel 's The Law of Nations , emphasized the principle of the reciprocal rights and duties of citizens: [19]   It may not be doubted that the very conception of a just government and its duty to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation of the citizen to render military service in case of need, and the right to compel it. To do more than state the proposition is absolutely unnecessary in view of the practical illustration afforded by the almost universal legislation to that effect now in force.   Conscription was unpopular from left-wing sectors at the start, with many Socialists jailed for "obstructing the recruitment or enlistment service". The most famous was Eugene Debs , head of the Socialist Party of America , who ran for president in 1920 from his Atlanta prison cell. He had his sentence commuted to time served and was released on December 25, 1921, by President Warren G. Harding .  The Industrial Workers of the World mobilized to obstruct the war effort through strikes in war-related industries and not registering.  Conscientious objectors [ edit ]  Conscientious objector (CO) exemptions were allowed for the Amish , Mennonites , Quakers , and Church of the Brethren only. All other religious and political objectors were forced to participate. Some 64,700 men claimed conscientious objector status; local draft boards certified 57,000, of whom 30,000 passed the physical and 21,000 were inducted into the U.S. Army. About 80% of the 21,000 decided to abandon their objection and take up arms, but 3,989 drafted objectors refused to serve. Most belonged to historically pacifist denominations, especially Quakers, Mennonites, and Moravian Brethren , as well as a few Seventh-day Adventists and Jehovah's Witnesses . About 15% were religious objectors from non-pacifist churches. [20]  Ben Salmon was a nationally known political activist who encouraged men not to register and personally refused to comply with the draft procedures. He rejected the Army Review Board proposal that he do noncombatant farm work. Sentenced to 25 years in prison, he again refused a proposed desk job. He was pardoned and released in November 1920 with a "dishonorable discharge". [21]  Interwar [ edit ]  The draft ended in 1918 but the Army designed the modern draft mechanism in 1926 and built it based on military needs despite an era of pacifism . Working where Congress would not, it gathered a cadre of officers for its nascent Joint Army-Navy Selective Service Committee, most of whom were commissioned based on social standing rather than military experience. [22] This effort did not receive congressionally approved funding until 1934 when Major General Lewis B. Hershey was assigned to the organization. The passage of a conscription act was opposed by some, including Dorothy Day and George Barry O'Toole , who were concerned that such conscription would not provide adequate protection for the rights of conscientious objectors . However, much of Hershey's work was codified into law with the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (STSA). [23]  World War II [ edit ]  By the summer of 1940, as Germany conquered France , Americans became more affable to the return of conscription. One national survey found that 67% of respondents believed that a German - Italian victory would endanger the United States, and that 71% supported "the immediate adoption of compulsory military training for all young men". [24] Similarly, a November 1942 survey of American high-school students found that 69% favored compulsory postwar military training. [25]  The World War I system served as a model for that of World War II. The 1940 instituted conscription in peacetime, requiring the registration of all men between 21 and 35, with selection for one year's service by a national lottery. President Roosevelt's signing of the Selective Training and Service Act on September 16, 1940, began the first peacetime draft in the United States. It also reestablished the Selective Service System as an independent agency responsible for identifying young men and facilitating their military service. Roosevelt named Lewis B. Hershey to head the System on July 31, 1941, where he remained until 1969. [23] This act came when other preparations, such as increased training and equipment production, had not yet been approved. Nevertheless, it served as the basis for the conscription programs that would continue to the present.  The act set a cap of 900,000 men to be in training at any given time, and limited military service to 12 months unless Congress deemed it necessary to extend such service in the interest of national defense. An amendment added 18 more months to this service period on August 18, 1941. After Pearl Harbor the STSA was further amended (December 19, 1941), extending the term of service to the duration of the war plus six months and requiring the registration of all men 18 to 64 years of age. During World War II, 49 million men were registered, 36 million classified [ not in citation given ] , and 10 million inducted. [26] 18 and 19 year olds were made liable for induction on November 13, 1942. By late 1942, the Selective Service System moved away from a national lottery to administrative selection by its more than 6,000 local boards .  On December 5, 1942, presidential Executive Order 9279 made it so that all men from the ages of 18 to 37 could not voluntarily enlist for the duration of the war, providing protection for the nation's home front manpower pool. The Navy and Marine Corps began procuring their personnel through the Selective Service System in early 1943. The Navy and Marine Corps enlisted inductees and volunteers under the same service agreements, but with different service obligations, while the Army placed wartime inductees and volunteers into a special service component known as the Army of the United States , commonly known as the "AUS;" service commitments were set at the length of the war plus six months. [27] [28]  Paul V. McNutt , head of the War Manpower Commission , estimated that the changes would increase the ratio of men drafted from one out of nine to one out of five. The commission's goal was to have nine million men in the armed forces by the end of 1943. [29] This facilitated the massive requirement of up to 200,000 men per month and would remain the standard for the length of the war.  The World War II draft operated from 1940 until 1946 when further inductions were suspended, and its legislative authorization expired without further extension by Congress in 1947. During this time, more than 10 million men had been inducted into military service. [30] However, the Selective Service System remained intact.  Opposition [ edit ]  Scattered opposition was encountered especially in the northern cities where African-Americans protested the system. The young Nation of Islam was at the forefront, with many Black Muslims jailed for refusing the draft, and their leader Elijah Muhammed was sentenced to federal prison for 5 years for inciting draft resistance. Organized draft resistance also developed in the Japanese American internment camps , where groups like the Heart Mountain Fair Play Committee refused to serve unless they and their families were released. 300 Nisei men from eight of the ten War Relocation Authority camps were arrested and stood trial for felony draft evasion ; most were sentenced to federal prison. [31] American Communists also opposed the war until Germany attacked the Soviet Union in June 1941, whereupon they became supporters. [32]  Conscientious objectors [ edit ]  Of the more than 72,000 men registering as conscientious objectors (CO), nearly 52,000 received CO status. Of these, over 25,000 entered the military in noncombatant roles, another 12,000 went to civilian work camps, and nearly 6,000 went to prison. Draft evasion only accounted for about 4% of the total inducted. About 373,000 alleged evaders were investigated with just over 16,000 being imprisoned. [33]  Cold War [ edit ]  The second peacetime draft began with passage of the Selective Service Act of 1948 after the STSA expired. The new law required all men, ages 18 to 26, to register. It also created the system for the "Doctor Draft" aimed at inducting health professionals into military service. [34] Unless otherwise exempted or deferred (see Berry Plan ), these men could be called for up to 21 months of active duty and five years of reserve duty service. Congress further tweaked this act in 1950 although the post–World War II surplus of military manpower left little need for draft calls until Truman's declaration of national emergency in December 1950. [35] Only 20,348 men were inducted in 1948 and only 9,781 in 1949.  Between the Korean War 's outbreak in June 1950 and the armistice agreement in 1953, Selective Service inducted over 1.5 million men. [30] Another 1.3 million volunteered, usually choosing the Navy or Air Force. [22] [33] Congress passed the Universal Military Training and Service Act in 1951 to meet the demands of the war. It lowered the induction age to 18½ and extended active-duty service commitments to 24 months. Despite the early combat failures and later stalemate in Korea, the draft has been credited by some as playing a vital role in turning the tide of war. [22] A February 1953 Gallup Poll showed 70 percent of Americans surveyed felt the SSS handled the draft fairly. Notably, Gallup reported that 64 percent of the demographic group including all draft age men (males 21 to 29) believed the draft to be fair. [36]  To increase equity in the system, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed an executive order on July 11, 1953, that ended the paternity deferment for married men. [37] In large part, the change in the draft served the purposes of the burgeoning Cold War. From a program that had just barely passed congressional muster during the fearful prelude to World War II, a more robust draft continued as fears now focused on the Soviet threat. Nevertheless, some dissenting voices in Congress continued to appeal to the history of voluntary American military service as preferable for a democracy. [38] [39] The Korean War was the first time any form of student deferment was used. During the Korean War a student carrying at least twelve semester hours was spared until the end of his current semester. [40]  The United States breathed easier with the Korean War Armistice on July 27, 1953; however, technology brought new promises and threats. U.S. air and nuclear power fueled the Eisenhower doctrine of "massive retaliation". This strategy demanded more machines and fewer foot soldiers, so the draft slipped to the back burner. However, the head of the SSS, Maj. Gen. Hershey, urged caution fearing the conflict looming in Vietnam. In May 1953, he told his state directors to do everything possible to keep SSS alive in order to meet upcoming needs. [41]  Following the 1953 Korean War Armistice, Congress passed the Reserve Forces Act of 1955 with the aim of improving National Guard and federal Reserve Component readiness while also constraining its use by the president. Towards this end, it mandated a six-year service commitment, in a combination of reserve and active duty time, for every line military member regardless of their means of entry. Meanwhile, the SSS kept itself alive by devising and managing a complex system of deferments for a swelling pool of candidates during a period of shrinking requirements. The greatest challenge to the draft came not from protesters but rather lobbyists seeking additional deferments for their constituency groups such as scientists and farmers. [23]  Government leaders felt the potential for a draft was a critical element in maintaining a constant flow of volunteers. On numerous occasions Gen. Hershey told Congress for every man drafted, three or four more were scared into volunteering. [42] Assuming his assessment was accurate, this would mean over 11 million men volunteered for service because of the draft between January 1954 and April 1975. [22]  The policy of using the draft as a club to force "voluntary" enlistment was unique in U.S. history. Previous drafts had not aimed at encouraging individuals to sign up in order to gain preferential placement or less dangerous postings. However, the incremental buildup of Vietnam without a clear threat to the country bolstered this. [22] Some estimates suggest conscription encompassed almost one-third of all eligible men during the period of 1965–69. [43] [44] This group represented those without exemption or resources to avoid military service. During the active combat phase, the possibility of avoiding combat by selecting their service and military specialty led as many as four out of 11 eligible men to enlist. [45] [46] The military relied upon this draft-induced volunteerism to make its quotas, especially the Army, which accounted for nearly 95 percent of all inductees during Vietnam. For example, defense recruiting reports show 34% of the recruits in 1964 up to 50% in 1970 indicated they joined to avoid placement uncertainty via the draft. [47] [48] [49] These rates dwindled to 24% in 1972 and 15% in 1973 after the change to a lottery system. Accounting for other factors, it can be argued up to 60 percent of those who served throughout the Vietnam War did so directly or indirectly because of the draft. [45]  In addition, deferments provided an incentive for men to follow pursuits considered useful to the state. This process, known as channeling, helped push men into educational, occupational, and family choices they might not otherwise have pursued. Undergraduate degrees were valued. Graduate work had varying value over time, though technical and religious training received near constant support. War industry support in the form of teaching, research, or skilled labor also received deferred or exempt status. Finally, marriage and family were exempted because of its positive social consequences. [23] [50] This included using presidential orders to extend exemptions again to fathers and others. [51] Channeling was also seen as a means of preempting the early loss of the country's "best and brightest" who had historically joined and died early in war. [52]  In the only extended period of military conscription of U.S. males during a major peacetime period, the draft continued on a more limited basis during the late 1950s and early 1960s. While a far smaller percentage of eligible males were conscripted compared to war periods, draftees by law served in the Army for two years. Elvis Presley and Willie Mays were two of the most famous people drafted during this period.  Public protests in the United States were few during the Korean War. However, the percentage of CO exemptions for inductees grew to 1.5% compared to a rate of just 0.5% in the past two wars. The Justice Department also investigated more than 80,000 draft evasion cases. [44] [53] [54]  Vietnam War [ edit ]  President Kennedy's decision to send military troops to Vietnam as "advisors" was a signal that Selective Service Director Lewis B. Hershey needed to visit the Oval Office. From that visit emerged two wishes of JFK with regard to conscription. The first was that the names of married men with children should occupy the very bottom of the callup list. Just above them should be the names of men who are married. This Presidential policy, however, was not to be formally encoded into Selective Service Status. Men who fit into these categories became known as Kennedy Husbands. When President Lyndon Johnson decided to rescind this Kennedy policy, there was a last-minute rush to the altar by thousands of American couples. [ citation needed ]  Many early rank-and-file anti-conscription protesters had been allied with the National Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy. The completion in 1963 of a Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty left a mass of undirected youth in search of a cause. [ citation needed ] Syndicated cartoonist Al Capp portrayed them as S.W.I.N.E, (Students Wildly Indignant About Nearly Everything). The catalyst for protest reconnection was the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin Resolution .  Consequently, there was some opposition to the draft even before the major U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War began. The large cohort of Baby Boomers who became eligible for military service during the Vietnam War was responsible for a steep increase in the number of exemptions and deferments, especially for college students. Besides being able to avoid the draft, college graduates who volunteered for military service (primarily as commissioned officers ) had a much better chance of securing a preferential posting compared to less-educated inductees.     President Gerald Ford announces amnesty for draft evaders at the White House, Washington, D.C., in 1974.    As U.S. troop strength in South Vietnam increased, more young men were drafted for service there, and many of those still at home sought means of avoiding the draft. Since only 15,000 National Guard and Reserve soldiers were sent to South Vietnam, enlistment in the Guard or the Reserves became a popular means of avoiding serving in a war zone. For those who could meet the more stringent enlistment standards, service in the Air Force, Navy, or Coast Guard was a means of reducing the chances of being killed. Vocations to the ministry and the rabbinate soared, because divinity students were exempt from the draft [ citation needed ] . Doctors and draft board members found themselves being pressured by relatives or family friends to exempt potential draftees. [ citation needed ]  The marriage deferment ended suddenly on August 26, 1965. Around 3:10pm President Johnson signed an order allowing the draft of men who married after midnight that day, then around 5pm he announced the change for the first time. [55]  Some conscientious objectors objected to the war based on the theory of Just War . One of these, Stephen Spiro , was convicted of avoiding the draft, but given a suspended sentence of five years. He was later pardoned by President Gerald Ford . [56]  There were 8,744,000 servicemembers between 1964 and 1975, of whom 3,403,000 were deployed to Southeast Asia. [57] From a pool of approximately 27 million, the draft raised 2,215,000 men for military service (in the United States, South Vietnam, and elsewhere) during the Vietnam War era. The majority of servicemembers deployed to South Vietnam were volunteers, even though hundreds of thousands of men opted to join the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Coast Guard (for three or four year terms of enlistment) rather than risk being drafted, serve for two years, and have no choice over their military occupational specialty (MOS). [58]  Of the nearly 16 million men not engaged in active military service, 57% were exempted (typically because of jobs including other military service), deferred (usually for educational reasons), or disqualified (usually for physical and mental deficiencies but also for criminal records including draft violations). [22] The requirements for obtaining and maintaining an educational deferment changed several times in the late 1960s. For several years, students were required to take an annual qualification test. In 1967 educational deferments were changed for graduate students. Those starting graduate studies in the fall of 1967 were given two semester deferments becoming eligible in June 1968. Those further along in their graduate study who entered prior to the summer of 1967 could continue to receive a deferment until they completed their studies. Peace Corps Volunteers were no longer given deferments and their induction was left to the discretion of their local boards. However most boards allowed Peace Corps Volunteers to complete their two years assignment before inducting them into the service. On December 1, 1969, a lottery was held to establish a draft priority for all those born between 1944 and 1950. Those with a high number no longer had to be concerned about the draft. Nearly 500,000 men were disqualified for criminal records, but less than 10,000 of them were convicted of draft violations. [33] Finally, as many as 100,000 draft eligible men fled the country. [59] [60]  End of conscription [ edit ]     Jeffrey Mellinger in 1972; Mellinger was the last drafted U.S. NCO to remain in the army before retiring in 2011.       Jeffrey Mellinger in 2005    During the 1968 presidential election , Richard Nixon campaigned on a promise to end the draft. [61] He had first become interested in the idea of an all-volunteer army during his time out of office, based upon a paper by Martin Anderson of Columbia University . [62] Nixon also saw ending the draft as an effective way to undermine the anti-Vietnam war movement, since he believed affluent youths would stop protesting the war once their own probability of having to fight in it was gone. [63] There was opposition to the all-volunteer notion from both the Department of Defense and Congress, so Nixon took no immediate action towards ending the draft early in his presidency. [62]  Instead, the Gates Commission was formed, headed by Thomas S. Gates, Jr. , a former Secretary of Defense in the Eisenhower administration . Gates initially opposed the all-volunteer army idea, but changed his mind during the course of the 15-member commission's work. [62] The Gates Commission issued its report in February 1970, describing how adequate military strength could be maintained without having conscription. [61] [64] The existing draft law was expiring at the end of June 1971, but the Department of Defense and Nixon administration decided the draft needed to continue for at least some time. [64] In February 1971, the administration requested of Congress a two-year extension of the draft, to June 1973. [65] [66]  Senatorial opponents of the war wanted to reduce this to a one-year extension, or eliminate the draft altogether, or tie the draft renewal to a timetable for troop withdrawal from Vietnam; [67] Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska took the most forceful approach, trying to filibuster the draft renewal legislation, shut down conscription, and directly force an end to the war. [68] Senators supporting Nixon's war efforts supported the bill, even though some had qualms about ending the draft. [66] After a prolonged battle in the Senate, in September 1971 cloture was achieved over the filibuster and the draft renewal bill was approved. [69] Meanwhile, military pay was increased as an incentive to attract volunteers, and television advertising for the U.S. Army began. [61] With the end of active U.S. ground participation in Vietnam, December 1972 saw the last men conscripted, who were born in 1952 [70] and who reported for duty in June 1973. On February 2, 1972, a drawing was held to determine draft priority numbers for men born in 1953, but in early 1973 it was announced by Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird that no further draft orders would be issued. [71] [72] In March 1973, 1974, and 1975, the Selective Service assigned draft priority numbers for all men born in 1954, 1955, and 1956, in case the draft was extended, but it never was. [73]  Command Sergeant Major Jeff Mellinger, believed to be the last drafted enlisted ranked soldier still on active duty, retired in 2011. [74] [75]  Chief Warrant Officer 5 Ralph E. Rigby, the last Vietnam War-era drafted soldier of Warrant Officer rank, retired from the army on November 10, 2014 after a 42-year career. [76]  Post-1980 draft registration [ edit ]  On July 2, 1980, President Jimmy Carter issued Presidential Proclamation 4771 and re-instated the requirement that young men register with the Selective Service System . [77] At that time it was required that all males, born on or after January 1, 1960, register with the Selective Service System. Those now in this category are male U.S. citizens and male immigrant non-citizens between the ages of 18 and 25, who are required to register within 30 days of their 18th birthday even if they are not eligible to join the military.  The Selective Service System describes its mission as "to serve the emergency manpower needs of the Military by conscripting untrained manpower, or personnel with professional health care skills, if directed by Congress and the President in a national crisis". [78] Registration forms are available either online or at any U.S. Post Office .  The Selective Service registration form states that failure to register is a felony punishable by up to five years imprisonment or a $250,000 fine. [79] In practice, no one has been prosecuted for failure to comply with draft registration since 1986, [80] in part because prosecutions of draft resisters proved counter-productive for the government, and in part because of the difficulty of proving that noncompliance with the law was "knowing and wilful". In interviews published in U.S. News & World Report in May 2016, current and former Selective Service System officials said that in 1988, the Department of Justice and Selective Service agreed to suspend any further prosecutions of nonregistrants. [81] Many men do not register at all, register late, or change addresses without notifying the Selective Service System. [82] Registration is a requirement for employment by the federal government and some states, as well as for receiving some state benefits such as driver's licenses. [83] Refusing to register can also cause a loss of eligibility for federal financial aid for college . [84]  Health care personnel [ edit ]  On December 1, 1989, Congress ordered the Selective Service System to put in place a system capable of drafting "persons qualified for practice or employment in a health care and professional occupation", if such a special-skills draft should be ordered by Congress. [85] In response, Selective Service published plans for the "Health Care Personnel Delivery System" (HCPDS) in 1989 and has had them ready ever since. The concept underwent a preliminary field exercise in Fiscal Year 1998, followed by a more extensive nationwide readiness exercise in Fiscal Year 1999. The HCPDS plans include women and men ages 20–54 in 57 different job categories. [86] As of May 2003, the Defense Department has said the most likely form of draft is a special skills draft, probably of health care workers. [87]  Legality [ edit ]  In 1918, the Supreme Court ruled that the World War I draft did not violate the United States Constitution in the Selective Draft Law Cases . The Court summarized the history of conscription in England and in colonial America, a history that it read as establishing that the Framers envisioned compulsory military service as a governmental power. It held that the Constitution's grant to Congress of the powers to declare war and to create standing armies included the power to mandate conscription. It rejected arguments based on states' rights, the 13th Amendment , and other provisions of the Constitution.  Later, during the Vietnam War, a lower appellate court also concluded that the draft was constitutional. United States v. Holmes , 387 F.2d 781 (7th Cir.), cert. denied , 391 U.S. 936 (1968). [88] Justice William O. Douglas , in voting to hear the appeal in Holmes , agreed that the government had the authority to employ conscription in wartime, but argued that the constitutionality of a draft in the absence of a declaration of war was an open question, which the Supreme Court should address.  During the World War I era, the Supreme Court allowed the government great latitude in suppressing criticism of the draft. Examples include Schenck v. United States , 249 U.S. 47 (1919) [89] and Gilbert v. Minnesota , 254 U.S. 325 (1920). [90] In subsequent decades, however, the Court has taken a much broader view of the extent to which advocacy speech is protected by the First Amendment . Thus, in 1971 the Court held it unconstitutional for a state to punish a man who entered a county courthouse wearing a jacket with the words "Fuck the Draft" visible on it. Cohen v. California , 403 U.S. 15 (1971). [91] Nevertheless, protesting the draft by the specific means of burning a draft registration card can be constitutionally prohibited, because of the government's interest in prohibiting the "nonspeech" element involved in destroying the card. United States v. O'Brien , 391 U.S. 367 (1968). [92]  Since the reinstatement of draft registration in 1980, the Supreme Court has heard and decided four cases related to the Military Selective Service Act: Rostker v. Goldberg, 453 U.S. 57 (1981), upholding the Constitutionality of requiring men but not women to register for the draft; Selective Service v. Minnesota Public Interest Research Group (MPIRG), 468 U.S. 841 (1984), upholding the Constitutionality of the first of the federal " Solomon Amendment " laws, which requires applicants for Federal student aid to certify that they have complied with draft registration, either by having registered or by not being required to register; Wayte v. United States, 470 U.S. 598 (1985), upholding the policies and procedures which the Supreme Court thought the government had used to select the "most vocal" nonregistrants for prosecution, after the government refused to comply with discovery orders by the trial court to produce documents and witnesses related to the selection of nonregistrants for prosecution; and Elgin v. Department of the Treasury, 567 U.S. ____ (2012) , regarding procedures for judicial review of denial of Federal employment for nonregistrants. [93]  In 1981, several men filed lawsuit in the case Rostker v. Goldberg , alleging that the Military Selective Service Act violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment by requiring that men only and not also women register with the Selective Service System. The Supreme Court upheld the act, stating that Congress's "decision to exempt women was not the accidental byproduct of a traditional way of thinking about women", that "since women are excluded from combat service by statute or military policy, men and women are simply not similarly situated for purposes of a draft or registration for a draft, and Congress' decision to authorize the registration of only men therefore does not violate the Due Process Clause", and that "the argument for registering women was based on considerations of equity, but Congress was entitled, in the exercise of its constitutional powers, to focus on the question of military need, rather than 'equity. ' " [94]  The Rostker v. Goldberg opinion's dependence upon deference on decision of the executive to exclude women from combat has garnered renewed scrutiny since the Department of Defense announced its decision in January 2013 to do away with most of the federal policies that have kept women from serving in combat roles in ground war situations. Both the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force had by then already opened up virtually all positions in sea and air combat to women. At least two lawsuits have been filed challenging the continued Constitutionality of requiring men but not women to register with the Selective service System: National Coalition for Men v. Selective Service System (filed April 4, 2013, U.S. District Court for the Central District of California; dismissed by the District Court July 29, 2013 as not "ripe" for decision; appeal argued December 8, 2015 before the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals; [95] reversed and remanded February 19, 2016 [96] ), and Kyle v. Selective Service System (filed July 3, 2015, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey), brought on behalf of Elizabeth Kyle-LaBell, who tried to register but was turned away because she is female. [97]  Conscientious objection [ edit ]  Main article: Conscientious objection in the United States  According to the Selective Service System, [98]   A conscientious objector is one who is opposed to serving in the armed forces and/or bearing arms on the grounds of moral or religious principles. [...] Beliefs which qualify a registrant for CO status may be religious in nature, but don't have to be. Beliefs may be moral or ethical; however, a man's reasons for not wanting to participate in a war must not be based on politics, expediency, or self-interest. In general, the man's lifestyle prior to making his claim must reflect his current claims.  The Supreme Court has ruled in cases United States v. Seeger [99] (1965) and Welsh v. United States [100] (1970) that conscientious objection can be by non-religious beliefs as well as religious beliefs; but it has also ruled in Gillette v. United States (1971) against objections to specific wars as grounds for conscientious objection. [101]  There is currently no mechanism to indicate that one is a conscientious objector in the Selective Service system. According to the SSS, after a person is drafted, he can claim Conscientious Objector status and then justify it before the Local Board. This is criticized because during the times of a draft, when the country is in emergency conditions, there could be increased pressure for Local Boards to be more harsh on conscientious objector claims.  There are two types of status for conscientious objectors. If a person objects only to combat but not to service in the military, then the person could be given noncombatant service in the military without training of weapons . If the person objects to all military service, then the person could be ordered to " alternative service " with a job "deemed to make a meaningful contribution to the maintenance of the national health, safety, and interest".  Poverty Draft [ edit ]  The poverty draft is a controversial belief in some circles that low-income demographics are either intentionally targeted by the military for recruitment, or that their low socioeconomic status makes enlistment especially attractive, such that they are overrepresented in the armed forces. The "poverty draft" is a term describing U.S. military recruiters' purposeful tendency to focus their recruiting efforts on inner-city and poor rural schools. The low-income youth and young people of color who attend these schools generally have fewer good educational and job opportunities than middle-class and wealthy youth and are therefore more likely to enlist. Proponents of the poverty draft view often claim that because of this the U.S. armed forces are disproportionally men and women of color and from poor and working-class backgrounds. [102]  [103]  Selective Service reforms [ edit ]  The Selective Service System has maintained that they have implemented several reforms that would make the draft more fair and equitable.  Some of the measures they have implemented include: [104]   Before and during the Vietnam War, a young man could get a deferment by showing that he was a full-time student making satisfactory progress towards a degree; now deferment only lasts to the end of the semester. If the man is a senior he can defer until the end of the academic year.  The government has said that draft boards are now more representative of the local communities in areas such as race and national origin.  A lottery system would be used to determine the order of people being called up. Previously the oldest men who were found eligible for the draft would be taken first. In the new system, the men called first would be those who are or will turn 20 years old in the calendar year or those whose deferments will end in the calendar year. Each year after, the man will be placed on a lower priority status until his liability ends.   Conscription controversies since 2003 [ edit ]  The effort to enforce Selective Service registration law was abandoned in 1986. Since then, no attempt to reinstate conscription has been able to attract much support in the legislature or among the public. [82] Since early 2003, when the Iraq War appeared imminent, there had been attempts through legislation and campaign  rhetoric to begin a new public conversation on the topic. Public opinion since 1973 has been largely negative.  In 2003, several Democratic congressmen ( Charles Rangel of New York, Jim McDermott of Washington , John Conyers of Michigan , John Lewis of Georgia , Pete Stark of California , Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii ) introduced legislation that would draft both men and women into either military or civilian government service, should there be a draft in the future. The Republican majority leadership suddenly considered the bill, nine months after its introduction, without a report from the Armed Services Committee (to which it had been referred), and just one month prior to the 2004 presidential and congressional elections . The Republican leadership used an expedited parliamentary procedure that would have required a two-thirds vote for passage of the bill. The bill was defeated on October 5, 2004, with two members voting for it and 402 members voting against.  In 2004, the platforms of both the Democratic and Republican parties opposed military conscription, but neither party moved to end draft registration. John Kerry in one debate criticized Bush's policies, "You've got stop-loss policies so people can't get out when they were supposed to. You've got a backdoor draft right now."  This statement was in reference to the U.S. Department of Defense use of "stop-loss" orders, which have extended the Active Duty periods of some military personnel. All enlistees, upon entering the service, volunteer for a minimum eight-year Military Service Obligation (MSO). This MSO is split between a minimum active duty period, followed by a reserve period where enlistees may be called back to active duty for the remainder of the eight years. [105] Some of these active duty extensions have been for as long as two years. The Pentagon stated that as of August 24, 2004, 20,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines had been affected. [106] As of January 31, 2006 it has been reported that more than 50,000 soldiers and reservists had been affected. [107]  Despite arguments by defense leaders that they had no interest in re-instituting the draft, Representative Neil Abercrombie 's (D-HI) inclusion of a DOD memo in the Congressional Record which detailed a meeting by senior leaders signaled renewed interest. Though the conclusion of the meeting memo did not call for a reinstatement of the draft, it did suggest Selective Service Act modifications to include registration by women and self-reporting of critical skills that could serve to meet military, homeland-defense, and humanitarian needs. [108] This hinted at more targeted draft options being considered, perhaps like that of the "Doctor Draft" that began in the 1950s to provide nearly 66% of the medical professionals who served in the Army in Korea. [109] Once created, this manpower tool continued to be used through 1972. The meeting memo gave DOD's primary reason for opposing a draft as a matter of cost effectiveness and efficiency. Draftees with less than two years' retention were said to be a net drain on military resources providing insufficient benefit to offset overhead costs of using them. [22]  Mentions of the draft during the presidential campaign led to a resurgence of anti-draft and draft resistance organizing. [110] One poll of young voters in October 2004 found that 29% would resist if drafted. [111]  In November 2006, Representative Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) again called for the draft to be reinstated; Speaker of the House  Nancy Pelosi rejected the proposal. [112]  On December 19, 2006, President George W. Bush announced that he was considering sending more troops to Iraq. The next day, the Selective Service System's director for operations and chief information officer, Scott Campbell, announced plans for a "readiness exercise" to test the system's operations in 2006, for the first time since 1998. [113]  On December 21, 2006, Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson , when asked by a reporter whether the draft should be reinstated to make the military more equal, said, "I think that our society would benefit from that, yes sir." Nicholson proceeded to relate his experience as a company commander in an infantry unit which brought together soldiers of different socioeconomic backgrounds and education levels, noting that the draft "does bring people from all quarters of our society together in the common purpose of serving". Nicholson later issued a statement saying he does not support reinstating the draft. [114]  On August 10, 2007, with National Public Radio on "All Things Considered", Lieutenant General  Douglas Lute , National Security Adviser to the President and Congress for all matters pertaining to the United States Military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan , expressed support for a draft to alleviate the stress on the Army's all-volunteer force. He cited the fact that repeated deployments place much strain upon one soldier's family and himself which, in turn, can affect retention. [115]  A similar bill to Rangel's 2003 one was introduced in 2007, called the Universal National Service Act of 2007 (H.R. 393), but it has not received a hearing or been scheduled for consideration.  At the end of June 2014 in Pennsylvania 14,250 letters of conscription were erroneously posted to men born in the 19th century calling upon them to register for the US military draft. This was attributed to a clerk at the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation who failed to select a century during a transfer of 400,000 records to the Selective Service. The Selective Service identified 27,218 records of men born in the 19th century made errantly applicable by the change of century and began sending out notices to them on June 30. [116]  On June 14, 2016, the Senate voted to require women to register for the draft, though language requiring this was dropped from later versions of the bill. [117]  Non-citizens [ edit ]  The Selective Service (and the draft) in the United States is not limited to citizens. Howard Stringer , for example, was drafted six weeks after arriving from his native Britain in 1965. [118] [119] Today, non-citizen males of appropriate age in the United States, who are permanent residents (holders of green cards ), seasonal agricultural workers not holding an H-2A Visa, refugees , parolees, asylees, and illegal immigrants , are required to register with the Selective Service System. [120] Refusal to do so is grounds for denial of a future citizenship application. In addition, immigrants who seek to naturalize as citizens must, as part of the Oath of Citizenship, swear to the following:   ... that I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the armed forces of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under civilian direction when required by the law; [121]   The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website also states however:   However, since 1975, USCIS has allowed the oath to be taken without the clauses:". . .that I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the Armed Forces of the United States when required by law...."   Non-citizens who serve in the United States military enjoy several naturalization benefits which are unavailable to non-citizens who do not, such as a waiver of application fees. [122] Permanent resident aliens who die while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces may be naturalized posthumously, which may be beneficial to surviving family members. [123]  See also [ edit ]   Conscription crisis  Demobilization of United States armed forces after World War II  Draft lottery (1969)  National service  Peace Churches  Service Nation   Footnotes [ edit ]    ^  Holbrook, Heber A. The Crisis Years: 1940 and 1941  Archived October 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . , The Pacific Ship and Shore Historical Review, July 4, 2001. p. 2.  ^  "Who Must Register" . sss.gov. Archived from the original on May 7, 2009.   ^  https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/10/246  ^  https://books.google.com/books?id=sNYc6alAb4IC&pg=PA18&dq=unorganized+militia+conscription&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjzqvzO563YAhWylOAKHVcmAf4Q6AEINjAC#v=onepage&q=unorganized%20militia%20conscription&f=false at page 18  ^  https://www.repository.law.indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=https://www.google.com/&httpsredir=1&article=2659&context=ilj at page 345  ^  John W. Chambers, II, ed. in chief, The Oxford Companion to American Military History (Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN  0-19-507198-0 ), 180.  ^  Webster, Daniel (December 9, 1814) On Conscription , reprinted in Left and Right: A Journal of Libertarian Thought (Autumn 1965)  ^  Chambers, ed. The Oxford Companion to American Military History , 181.  ^  James W. Geary, We Need Men: The Union Draft in the Civil War (1991)  ^  Escott, Paul. Military Necessity: Civil-Military Relations in the Confederacy . Westport, CT: Praeger Security International, 2006.  ^  Arnold Shankman, "Draft Resistance in Civil War Pennsylvania." Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography (1977): 190-204. online  ^  Moore 1924  ^  Howard Zinn, People's History of the United States . (Harper Collins, 2003): 134  ^  Chambers (1987)  ^  Zinn (2003)  ^  Nancy Ford, Americans all!: foreign-born soldiers in World War I (2001)  ^  Chambers, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) p 218  ^ a  b  Shenk 2005 , p. 62.  ^  Chambers, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) pp. 219–20  ^  John Whiteclay Chambers II, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) pp. 216–17  ^  Staff of the Catholic Peace Fellowship (2007). "The Life and Witness of Ben Salmon" . Sign of Peace . 6.1 (Spring 2007).   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  Morris, Brett. (2006). The Effects of the Draft on US Presidential Approval Ratings during the Vietnam War, 1954–1975 , Doctoral dissertation, University of Alabama (Tuscaloosa).  ^ a  b  c  d  Flynn, G. (1985). Lewis B. Hershey, Mr. Selective Service. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.  ^  "What the U.S.A. Thinks" . Life . July 29, 1940. p. 20 . Retrieved November 10, 2011 .   ^  "Survey Shows What Youth is Thinking" . Life . November 30, 1942. p. 110 . Retrieved November 23, 2011 .   ^  George Q. Flynn, The Draft, 1940–1973. (1993)  ^  Clifford, J., & Spencer, S. (1986). First Peacetime Draft. Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas.  ^  "Conscription Order #1", Office of the War Department, Records of the Personnel Division (G-1), U.S. National Archives Record Group 165 [1]  ^  "Manpower: Sweeping Changes Halt Enlistments, Cut Top Draft Age to 38, Give McNutt Selective Service Control" . Life . December 21, 1942. p. 27 . Retrieved November 24, 2011 .   ^ a  b  Selective Service System. (May 27, 2003). Induction Statistics. In Inductions (by year) from World War I Through the End of the Draft (1973)  Archived May 7, 2009, at the Wayback Machine . . Retrieved May 5, 2009.  ^  Muller, Eric L. "Draft resistance" . Densho Encyclopedia . Retrieved August 27, 2014 .   ^  Buhle, Paul. "Communist Party, USA" . Encyclopedia of the American Left . Retrieved January 2, 2017 .   ^ a  b  c  Chambers, J. (1987). To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America. New York: Free Press.  ^  Hershey, L. (1960). Outline of Historical Background of Selective Service and Chronology . (Available from Selective Service System, 1724 F Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20435)  ^  Selective Service System. (1953). Selective Service under the 1948 Act extended (212278-53-7). Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.  ^  Gallup, G. (1972). The Gallup Poll: Public opinion, 1935–1971 (Vol. 2). New York: Random House.  ^  Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, Selective Service System. (February 19, 2004). Fast facts. In Effects of Marriage and Fatherhood on Draft Eligibility  Archived May 7, 2009, at the Wayback Machine . . Retrieved May 5, 2009.  ^  Gilliam, R. (1982). The Peacetime Draft: Voluntarism to Coercion. In M. Anderson (Ed.), The Military Draft: Selected Readings on Conscription (pp. 97–116). Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press. (Original work published 1968)  ^  O'Sullivan, J. & A. Meckler. (Eds.). (1974). The Draft and Its Enemies: A Documentary History. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press.  ^  Myra MacPherson (2001). Long Time Passing, New Edition: Vietnam and the Haunted Generation . Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press. p. 92.   ^  Hershey, 1953  ^  House Committee on Appropriations Hearings, 1958.  ^  Chambers, J. (ed), 1987  ^ a  b  Flynn, G. (2000). The Draft, 1940–1973 . Lawrence, KS: University of Kansas Press.  ^ a  b  Useem, M. (1973). Conscription, Protest and Social Conflict: The Life and Death of a Draft Resistance Movement. New York: Wiley.  ^  Oi, W. (1982). "The Economic Cost of the Draft". In M. Anderson (Ed.), The Military Draft: Selected Readings on Conscription (pp. 317–346). Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press.  ^  Angrist, J. (1991). "The Draft Lottery and Voluntary Enlistment in the Vietnam Era". Journal of the American Statistical Association , 86(415), 584–95.  ^  Binkin, M., & Johnston, J. (1973), All-volunteer Armed Forces: Progress, Problems, and Prospects , report by the Brookings Institution prepared for the Senate Armed Services Committee, 93rd Congress, First Session. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office.  ^  Siu, Henry E. (2008). The fiscal role of conscription in the U.S. World War II effort . Journal of Monetary Economics, 55(6).  ^  Marmion, H. (1968). Selective Service: Conflict and Compromise. New York: John Wiley & Sons.  ^  Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, 2004  ^  Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, The nation's manpower revolution, 88th Cong., 2817 (1963) (testimony of Lewis B. Hershey).  ^  Chambers, 1987  ^  Kohn, S. (1986). Jailed for Peace: The History of American Draft Law Violations, 1658–1985 . Westport, CT: Greenwood Press  ^  Orvedahl, Reid. "PrimeTime: Marrying to Avoid Draft" . ABC News . ABC News . Retrieved June 6, 2015 .   ^  Cornell, Tom (2008). "Stephen Spiro, 1940–2007". The Catholic Worker . LXXV (May–June): 6.   ^  U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (Nov 2011). "America's Wars"  (PDF) . Retrieved June 7, 2012 .   ^  Dunnigan, James F (1999). Dirty Little Secrets of the Vietnam War (First ed.). St martin's Press. p. 18. ISBN  0-312-19857-4 .   ^  Chambers, J. (Ed.). (1999). The Oxford Companion to American Military History .  ^  Reeves, T. & Hess, K. (1970). The End of the Draft. New York: Random House.  ^ a  b  c  Thomas W. Evans (Summer 1993). "The All-Volunteer Army After Twenty Years: Recruiting in the Modern Era" . Sam Houston State University . Archived from the original on August 8, 2013 . Retrieved May 5, 2009 .   ^ a  b  c  Aitken, Jonathan (1996). Nixon: A Life . Regnery Publishing . ISBN  0-89526-720-9 .  pp. 396–397.  ^  Ambrose, Stephen (1989). Nixon, Volume Two: The Triumph of a Politician 1962–1972 . Simon & Schuster .  pp. 264–266.  ^ a  b  Griffith, Robert K.; Robert K. Griffith, Jr., John Wyndham Mountcastle (1997). U.S. Army's Transition to the All-volunteer Force, 1868–1974 . DIANE Publishing. ISBN  0-7881-7864-4 .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link ) pp. 40–41.  ^  David E. Rosenbaum (February 3, 1971). "Stennis Favors 4-Year Draft Extension, but Laird Asks 2 Years" . New York Times . Retrieved December 30, 2007 .   ^ a  b  Black, Conrad (2007). "Waging Peace". Richard M. Nixon: A Life in Full . PublicAffairs . ISBN  1-58648-519-9 .   ^  David E. Rosenbaum (June 5, 1971). "Senators Reject Limits on Draft; 2-Year Plan Gains" . New York Times . Retrieved December 29, 2007 .   ^  John W. Finney (May 9, 1971). "Congress vs. President" . New York Times . Retrieved December 31, 2007 .   ^  David E. Rosenbaum (September 22, 1971). "Senate Approves Draft Bill, 55-30; President to Sign" . New York Times . Retrieved December 29, 2007 .   ^  "Selective Service System: History and Records" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on February 27, 2015 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Military draft system stopped" . The Bulletin . Bend, Oregon. UPI. January 27, 1973. p. 1.   ^  "Military draft ended by Laird" . The Times-News . Hendersonville, North Carolina. Associated Press. January 27, 1973. p. 1.   ^  "Selective Service System: History and Records" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on October 6, 2012 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Set to retire, the last Army draftee 'loves being a soldier ' " . Boston Globe . Associated Press. July 4, 2011 . Retrieved February 6, 2013 .   ^  http://content.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1877943,00.html  ^  Phillips, Michael M. (November 18, 2014). "A Reluctant Soldier Completes His Duty" . Wall Street Journal . Retrieved August 31, 2016 .   ^  Proclamation 4771, Registration Under the Military Selective Service Act, July 2, 1980, 45 FR  45247 , 94 Stat.  3775 . Amended by Proclamation 7275, Registration Under the Military Selective Service Act, February 22, 2000, 65 FR  9199  ^  "Selective Service System" . Sss.gov . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Selective Service System: Fast Facts  Archived July 27, 2008, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  "What If I Choose Not To Register?" . Retrieved July 27, 2008 .   ^  Nelson, Steven (May 3, 2016). "Gender-Neutral Draft Registration Would Create Millions of Female Felons: It's unlikely any would face prison, but jailed draft resisters and former officials urge caution" . U.S. News & World Report . Retrieved May 15, 2016 .   ^ a  b  Edward Hasbrouck. "Prosecutions of Draft Registration Resisters" . Resisters.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "State / Commonwealth and Territory Legislation" . Selective Service System. Archived from the original on April 29, 2015.   ^  "Am I eligible to receive financial aid?" . United States Department of Education .   ^  Edward Hasbrouck. "FAQ about Health Care Workers and the Draft" . Medicaldraft.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Proposed Health care personnel delivery System (HCPDS) , 54 Federal Register , 33644-33654, August 15, 1989.  ^  Roger A. Lalich, Health care personnel delivery System: Another Doctor Draft? (Wisconsin Medical Journal, 2004). Archived July 2, 2010, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  " ' 'Holmes v. United States'', 391 U.S. 936 (1968)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Schenck v. United States'', 249 U.S. 47 (1919)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Gilbert v. Minnesota''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Cohen v. California'', 403 U.S. 15 (1971)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'United States v. O'Brien'', 391 U.S. 367 (1968)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and Health Care Workers and Women and the Draft" . Resisters.info . Retrieved February 21, 2016 .   ^  Rostker v. Goldberg , Cornell Law School, retrieved December 26, 2006.  ^  Hasbrouck, Edward. "Extend draft registration to women -- or end it?" . The Practical Nomad . Retrieved February 22, 2016 .   ^  Hasbrouck, Edward. "Future of Draft for Men and Women Goes to Court and Congress" . WorldBeyondWar.org . Retrieved February 22, 2016 .   ^  "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and Health Care Workers and Women and the Draft" . Resisters.info . Retrieved February 21, 2016 .   ^  "Selective Service System: Fast Facts" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on May 7, 2009 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'United States v. Seeger''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com. March 8, 1965 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Welsh v. United States''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Gillette v. United States''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "The National Youth and Militarism Program : "The Poverty Draft" (PDF) (Accessed 3/14/06)"  (PDF) . American Friends Service Committee . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2008-01-09.   ^  Mariscal, Jorge. "Fighting the Poverty Draft" . Counterpunch . Retrieved 12 September 2017 .   ^  "Differences Between The Selective Service Today And During Vietnam" . sss.gov . Archived from the original on May 13, 2013 . Retrieved May 1, 2013 .   ^  "Directive 1304.25 Fulfilling the Military Service Obligation (MSO)" . U.S. Department of Defense. August 25, 1997. Archived from the original on November 14, 2004.   ^  AlterNet / By Richard Muhammad (August 23, 2004). "War on Iraq: Firing Back" . AlterNet . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Stop-loss used to retain 50,000 troops | csmonitor.com  Archived September 25, 2008, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Congressional Record. 108th Cong., 2d sess., 2004. Vol. 150, No. 130: E1938.  ^  Salyer, J. (April 26, 1954). "Training of medical officers". In Medical Science Publication 4, Recent Advances in Medicine and Surgery (19-30 April 1954): Based on Professional Medical Experiences in Japan and Korea 1950–1953 (chap.2) . Retrieved May 5, 2009. Archived August 10, 2007, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Edward Hasbrouck. "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and the Medical Draft in the USA" . Resisters.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Newsweek Poll: Youth Vote Shows Bush, Kerry Neck-and-Neck (47% for Kerry, 45% for Bush); But Kerry's Lead Grows Among Likely Voters (52% to 42%)" . Prnewswire.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Pelosi says no to draft legislation" . CNN . November 20, 2006 . Retrieved July 10, 2011 .   ^  (December 22, 2006). "abc7.com: U.S. Testing National Draft Readiness 12/22/06" . Abclocal.go.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link )  [ dead link ]  ^  "VA Head: Draft Beneficial to Society, Veterans Affairs Secretary Says Military Draft Beneficial, but He Doesn't Support It – CBS News" . Archived from the original on May 15, 2008.   ^  Bush War Adviser Supports Considering a Military Draft FOXNews.com  ^  Y2K bug triggers army conscription notices sent to 14,000 dead men | Technology | The Guardian  ^  Steinhauer, Jennifer (June 14, 2016). "Senate Votes to Require Women to Register for the Draft" . New York Times . Retrieved June 16, 2016 .   ^  Grifiths, Katherine. " Sir Howard Stringer, U.S. Head Of Sony: Sony's knight buys Tinseltown dream ." The Independent , September 18, 2004.  ^  " The Interview: Howard Stringer. " The Independent , March 21, 2005. Archived August 5, 2010, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Selective Service System – Who Must Register  Archived November 5, 2006, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  USCIS Home Page  ^  Naturalization Information for Military Personnel USCIS Archived November 27, 2005, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  The ABC's of Immigration: Military Service – March 29, 2005  Archived September 10, 2006, at the Wayback Machine .    References and further reading [ edit ]     Wikimedia Commons has media related to Conscription .     Martin Anderson; Valerie Bloom (1976). Conscription: a select and annotated bibliography . Hoover Press. ISBN  978-0-8179-2571-0 .  . ( Full text ).  Leach, Jack F. Conscription in the United States: Historical Background. (Rutland, Vt., 1952)   American Revolution [ edit ]   Dougherty, Keith L. Collective Action under the Articles of Confederation. Cambridge U. Press, 2001. 211 pp.   Civil War [ edit ]   Bernstein, Iver. The New York City Draft Riots: Their Significance for American Society and Politics in the Age of the Civil War (1990). online edition  Cruz, Barbara C. and Jennifer Marques Patterson. "'In the Midst of Strange and Terrible Times': The New York City Draft Riots of 1863. Social Education. v. 69#1 2005. pp 10+, with teacher's guide and URL's. online version  Geary, James W. We Need Men: The Union Draft in the Civil War (1991) pp. 264  Geary, James W. "Civil War Conscription in the North: A Historiographical Review," Civil War History 32 (1986): 208–28, online  Hilderman, Walter C., III. They Went into the Fight Cheering! Confederate Conscription in North Carolina. Boone, N.C.: Parkway, 2005. pp. 272  Hyman, Harold M. A More Perfect Union: The Impact of the Civil War and Reconstruction on the Constitution. (1973), ch 13. online edition  Kenny, Kevin. "Abraham Lincoln and the American Irish." American Journal of Irish Studies (2013): 39-64.  Levine, Peter. "Draft Evasion in the North during the Civil War, 1863–1865," Journal of American History 67 (1981): 816–34 online edition  Moore, Albert Burton. Conscription and Conflict in the Confederacy 1924 online edition  Murdoch, Eugene C. One Million Men: The Civil War Draft in the North (1971).  Shankman, Arnold. "Draft Resistance in Civil War Pennsylvania." Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography (1977): 190-204. online  Wheeler, Kenneth H. "Local Autonomy and Civil War Draft Resistance: Holmes County, Ohio." Civil War History. v.45#2 1999. pp 147+ online edition   World War I [ edit ]   Chambers II, John Whiteclay. To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987), comprehensive look at the national level.  Ford, Nancy Gentile (2001). Americans All!: Foreign-born Soldiers in World War I . Texas A&M University Military History Series:73. ISBN  978-1-60344-132-2 .   Ford, Nancy Gentile. "'Mindful of the Traditions of His Race': Dual Identity and Foreign-born Soldiers in the First World War American Army." Journal of American Ethnic History 1997 16(2): 35–57. ISSN  0278-5927 Fulltext: in Ebsco  Hickle, K. Walter. "'Justice and the Highest Kind of Equality Require Discrimination': Citizenship, Dependency, and Conscription in the South, 1917–1919." Journal of Southern History. v. 66#4 2000. pp 749+ online version  Keith, Jeanette. "The Politics of Southern Draft Resistance, 1917–1918: Class, Race, and Conscription in the Rural South." Journal of American History 2000 87(4): 1335–1361. ISSN  0021-8723 Fulltext: in Jstor and Ebsco  Keith, Jeanette. Rich Man's War, Poor Man's Fight: Race, Class, and Power in the Rural South during the First World War. 2004. 260pp.  Kennedy, David M. Over Here: The First Worm War and American Society (1980), ch 3 online edition  Shenk, Gerald E. "Race, Manhood, and Manpower: Mobilizing Rural Georgia for World War I," Georgia Historical Quarterly , 81 (Fall 1997), 622–62  Woodward, C. Vann. Tom Watson, Agrarian Rebel (1938), pp 451–63.  Sieger, Susan. "She Didn't Raise Her Boy to Be a Slacker: Motherhood, Conscription, and the Culture of the First World War." Feminist Studies. v.22#1 1996. pp 7+ online edition  Shenk, Gerald E. (2005). "Work or fight!": Race, Gender, and the Draft in World War One . Macmillan Publishers . ISBN  978-1-4039-6175-4 .    World War II [ edit ]   Flynn, George Q. The Draft, 1940–1973. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1993; the standard history  Garry, Clifford J. and Samuel R. Spencer Jr. The First Peacetime Draft. 1986.  Goossen, Rachel Waltner; Women against the Good War: Conscientious Objection and Gender on the American Home Front, 1941–1947 1997 online edition  Westbrook, Robert. "'I Want a Girl Just Like the Girl That Married Harry James': American Women and the Problem of Political Obligation in WWII," American Quarterly 42 (December 1990): 587–614; online in JSTOR   Cold War and Vietnam [ edit ]   Lawrence M. Baskir; William A. Strauss (1978). Chance and Circumstance: The Draft, the War, and the Vietnam Generation . Random House. ISBN  0-394-72749-5 .   Flynn, George Q. The Draft, 1940–1973. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1993; the standard history  Marc Leepson, "What It Was Like to Be Drafted," The New York Times , "Vietnam '67," July 21, 2017 .   Recent [ edit ]   Halstead, Fred. GIs Speak out against the War: The Case of the Ft. Jackson 8 . 128 pages. New York: Pathfinder Press. 1970.  Warner, John T. and Beth J. Asch. "The Record and Prospects of the All-volunteer Military in the United States." Journal of Economic Perspectives 2001 15(2): 169–192. ISSN  0895-3309 Fulltext: in Jstor and Ebsco  Wooten; Evan M. "Banging on the Backdoor Draft: The Constitutional Validity of Stop-Loss in the Military" , William and Mary Law Review , Vol. 47, 2005  Chambers II, John Whiteclay, ed. Draftees or Volunteers: A Documentary History of the Debate over Military Conscription in the United States, 1787–1973 , (1975) (1976) (2011)   External links [ edit ]     Look up conscription in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.     "What It Was Like to be Drafted," The New York Times , "Vietnam '67," July 21, 2017 .  Selective Service System official website  Resisters.info  Rolling Stone magazine: "The Return of the Draft" 2005  How To Beat The Draft Board  Reinstating the military draft by Walter E. Williams  Are You Going to be Drafted? by Rod Powers. Discusses the improbability of the draft returning.  World War I: Conscription Laws from the Library of Congress Blog        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Conscription_in_the_United_States&oldid=833305189 "  Categories : Conscription in the United States Conscription by country United States military policies American nationalism Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2015 Use mdy dates from August 2016 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014 All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from December 2015 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2009      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      In other projects    Wikimedia Commons      Languages    Français   Edit links        This page was last edited on 30 March 2018, at 19:14.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                                      Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                        America may never have a draft again. But we’re still punishing low-income men for not registering     More than 40 years since America's last draft, failing to register for selective service can mean missing out on crucial benefits.            More than 40 years since America's last draft, failing to register for selective service can mean missing out on crucial benefits.        By Tina Griego   By Tina Griego  Email the author   October 16, 2014  Email the author  Follow @tinagriego        Draft Director Curtis W. Tarr spins one of the two Plexiglas drums in Washington on Feb. 2, 1972, as the fourth annual Selective Service lottery begins. Inside are capsules containing birth dates and orders of assignment for men born in 1953. (Charles W. Harrity/AP)   The last time Danieldevel Davis got out of prison it was 2012 and he was 38.  “I ain’t going back into no man’s prison again,” he vowed.  He’d been locked up for six years, which was the longest he’d ever lived in one place. Davis grew up in foster homes, dropped out of school in the 11 th grade and then hit the revolving door: streets, juvenile detention, streets, prison. He’s never possessed a driver’s license. He’s never had a bill in his name.  “I’ve never had anything in my name,” he says.  So, this is what happened when Davis went to fill out his financial aid paperwork at a Virginia Beach technical college.  “Have you registered for the Selective Service?” the financial aid officer asked.  “What do you mean?” Davis said.  “Did you register to be drafted?”  “Huh?”  This may be a nation with an all-volunteer military, one that ended conscription more than 40 years ago, but federal law still requires men ages 18 to 25 to register for a draft that does not exist. There are few exemptions and no second chances.  Davis never registered with the Selective Service System and so learned that he was looking at potentially lifelong consequences. No access to federal student loans or grants. No federal job training money or certain government jobs. And, in Virginia, no driver’s license.  “I didn’t know I had to register and now I can’t get anything,” Davis says. “I can’t do nothing.”  The odds of this country returning to a draft are almost zero, but the price for failure to register is high and is largely born by the men who can ill afford to pay it: high school dropouts, disconnected inner city residents, ex-offenders and immigrants — legal and unauthorized — who do not know that failure to register can jeopardize citizenship. In other words, those precisely in need of the type of job training, education and citizenship opportunities that could help move them from the margins to the mainstream.  In California, the Selective Service System estimates, men who failed to register were denied access to more than $99 million in federal and state financial aid and job training benefits between 2007 and April of this year. Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachusetts saw $35 million in combined lost benefits between 2011 and spring 2014.  “Why are we setting up these barriers?” says Regina Tyler, director of Virginia State University’s Upward Bound program and the Education Opportunity Center, which helps adults return to school. “Why are we attaching them to financial aid? We don’t have a draft, so what is the point?”  The point, supporters of registration long have argued, is that almost-zero odds of conscription are not zero odds.  “You can never say never,” says Lawrence G. Romo,  director of the Selective Service System. “We are a deterrent. We want to make sure our adversaries understand that if we had an extreme national emergency, we would have the draft.”  A fair and equitable draft, which would include alternatives to military service, requires 100 percent compliance, he argues. “We need to have some type of penalty in order to help us get that compliance.”  The agency grants few exceptions , but, Romo emphasizes, it is ultimately up to the financial aid officer or the workforce specialist – the agency dispensing the benefit  – to decide whether someone “knowingly and willfully” violated the law and therefore should be denied.  “The door may have closed, but the window may still be pried open,” agency spokesman Matthew Tittmann puts it.  A majority of men do register – 2.5 million in 2013 alone. The agency casts a huge, largely effective dragnet in high schools, motor vehicle departments, post offices and elsewhere. The average compliance rate nationally among 19-year-olds who registered last year was 89 percent.  So, how many run into the sanctions as Davis did? There’s no good way to track, but the Selective Service System estimates it’s in the tens of thousands every year.  Men such as Davis also make up part of a larger group of suspected violators  of the law whose names the agency turns over every year to the Department of Justice, which hasn’t prosecuted anyone for the offense since 1986. The potential for  punishment is there, however: A fine of up to $250,000 and/or up to five years in prison.  The federal sanctions are just the half of it. According to the Selective Service System, 32 states now have made registration a prerequisite to a variety of benefits , from state financial aid to state jobs to tuition breaks. Tennessee requires males who failed to register to pay out-of-state tuition to attend the University of Tennessee system – even if they are state residents and citizens.   Selective Service registration raises two separate but related issues, the larger of which is whether it is necessary in the absence of a declared war or national emergency, and if so, whether it is discriminatory in an age of expanded roles for women in military combat. (Short and hotly-debated answers: Maybe and yes. Neither of which will be decided by the Selective Service agency itself.)  But the concerns of Davis and men like him are more immediate: how to move forward when his education path is blocked. Davis is working part-time as a janitor for $7.50 an hour and cannot pay for school without help.  “The job part I understand because I put myself in this position, that’s the bed I laid in,” he says. “But as far as the Selective Service goes, I don’t feel as though I should be punished. I am someone trying to rehabilitate myself and go to school.”  By far, the agency’s most successful tool to enforce compliance lies in the issuance of state driver’s licenses. Forty states, the District of Columbia and four U.S. territories now tie issuance or renewal of driver’s licenses to Selective Service registration. Most of those have moved to an automatic registration. Other have opt-in or opt-out provisions. Agency spokesman, Mr Tittmann, indicated that Selective Service strongly favors state laws for automatic registration when getting a driver’s license because it helps those most in need of the benefits linked to registration – young men out the mainstream, the disadvantaged, minorities, and immigrants.  “This is absolutely unfair,” Rep. Mike Coffman, a veteran of both Iraq wars, says of the sanctions. Coffman, a Republican from Colorado, is among the most outspoken critics of the system. Earlier this year, he co-sponsored a bipartisan bill that would abolish the $23 million agency , suspending registration – and sanctions — except by executive order in a time of national emergency.  “The Selective Service is a bureaucracy that needs to die because it no longer serves a viable purpose,” he said in an e-mail. “Even during the height of the War in Iraq and Afghanistan the Department of Defense never considered using the draft.”  Says Romo, “You have 435 congressmen and so you have 435 opinions on the Selective Service.”  One of them, he notes, belongs to Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel of New York, who earlier this year introduced two bills related to the draft . The first would require women to register with the Selective Service . The second calls for all citizens and residents between 18 and 25 to perform two years of military or community service and would reinstate the draft only when a clear threat to the nation is present and Congress formally has declared war or the president proclaims a national emergency.  Rangel has long argued that the burden of fighting war has fallen unfairly on the shoulders of a few , and that a more-inclusive draft “would compel everyone in the nation to stop and think about who we sent to wars, how we fight – and why we fight them at all.”  But, Rangel says, until the day comes that the United States is engaged in a declared war and the nation’s security is violated — or Congress passes his National Service Act — there is no reason for the Selective Service System. “Having people penalized for not registering is a fraud,” he said.  Rangel emphasized that registration is current law and should be followed, but said he now intends to introduce a  draft-related bill — one abolishing the service.  Romo argues that if the system were abolished, the nation would lose time it could not afford in reactivating it in the event of national emergency. “It would take a minimum of two or three years to get the system going,” he said. It’s about readiness, he says, “and the Selective Service is a very inexpensive insurance policy.”  The agency, he says, is engaged in constant public outreach, particularly to those most in danger of falling through the cracks. That includes education sessions in inner-city neighborhoods, the Bureau of Prisons, halfway houses and groups working with immigrants and minorities. “We are trying to ensure that a man does not ace himself out of potential opportunities down the road because he was ignorant of the fact he had to register,” Romo says.  Until a few days ago, Davis did not realize that in the phrase “knowingly and willfully” lies his hope. He thinks he can prove to a financial aid officer that he did not deliberately evade his duty. He’s calling his former probation officer to get his juvenile and adult criminal records and is trying to figure out how to get his school records. Davis is building his case.                     Tina Griego is a reporter for Storyline. Previously, Tina was a city columnist for the Rocky Mountain News and the Denver Post for a combined 12 years.  Follow @tinagriego                                  Close    Now Playing                                                                              Sections       Sections      Top Stories      Watch      U.S.      International      Politics      ABC News Features      Lifestyle      Entertainment      Virtual Reality      Health      Technology      Investigative      Sports      Weather        Shows       Shows      Good Morning America      World News Tonight      Nightline      20/20      This Week      The View      What Would You Do?      ABC News Features        Live       Live      Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies on data protection       UN Security Council meeting on Syria       Senate debates nomination for federal judge in Kentucky       Mixture of rain and snow hitting the Northeast: Radar       @4:45p: House meets for legislative business       Old Faithful Geyser in Yellowstone National Park       California Academy of Sciences coral reef cam       Kittens play on 'Dorm Cam' in Los Angeles       Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies on Capitol Hill       Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before Senate on data privacy         More       Privacy Policy      Your CA Privacy Rights      Children's Online Privacy Policy      Interest-Based Ads      Terms of Use      Contact Us      Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.        Search                    Menu          Interest Successfully Added  We'll notify you here with news about AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest?    Off  On          Notifications           Notifications For Interests:         Breaking      Interests See All           To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up       Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news?     Off  On          Log In         Video    Live    Shows      Good Morning America  Good Morning America      World News Tonight  World News Tonight      Nightline  Nightline      20/20  20/20      This Week  This Week      The View  The View      What Would You Do?  What Would You Do?      ABC News Features  ABC News Features              U.S.    ABC News Features    Politics    International    Entertainment    Lifestyle    Health    Virtual Reality    Investigative    Technology    Weather    Sports       Privacy Policy Privacy Policy    Your CA Privacy Rights Your CA Privacy Rights    Children's Online Privacy Policy Children's Online Privacy Policy    Interest-Based Ads Interest-Based Ads    Terms of Use Terms of Use    Contact Us Contact Us        Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.                           What Is the Draft and How Does It Work?   By ABC News  June 23, 2005   0 Shares               Email      Star    0 Shares               Email      Though President Bush and the Defense Department have dismissed the notion, speculation about the possible return of the draft has remained steady in recent months. Democratic lawmakers in particular have raised the issue, as the military struggles to meet recruiting targets. The nation's first military draft began in 1940, when President Roosevelt signed the Selective Training and Service Act. The draft continued through war and peacetime until 1973. More than 10 million men entered military service through the Selective Service System during World War II alone.  To instate a draft again, Congress must pass legislation to begin the process and the president must sign the legislation. The Selective Service System may give as much as three months notice (according to current regulations) before it institutes a draft. Under the law, virtually all male U.S. citizens and male aliens are required to register through Selective Service, which was reinstated by President Carter in 1980. These days you can even do so online through the selective service's Web site. Those who fail to register with Selective Service before turning age 26, even if not prosecuted, will become ineligible for federal financial aid, citizenship, federal job training and federal jobs. Aliens will become ineligible to become citizens. To be inducted men have to meet the physical, mental and administrative standards established by the military services. Draftees would be selected by lottery. The first to be called would be men whose 20th birthday falls during that year. If necessary, they would be followed by those aged 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. Those who are 18 or turning 19 would probably not be drafted, according to the Selective Service System.  When someone is selected, a notice will be sent to the address supplied by that person on their registration acknowledgment card. Ten days after the date on the notice, the Selective Service System requests that the draftee get a physical and report to a location for induction. It could be as little as 45 days from the time the president signs the order to implement the draft to the day that the first recruits begin showing up at basic training camps.  According to current plans, the Selective Service System must deliver the first inductees to the military within 193 days from the onset of a crisis. Basic training, usually eight weeks, is the next step. The length of time for advanced training is dependent on the complexity of the job the individual has been assigned. A recruit could be on the ground in combat five months from the day they were drafted. Avoiding the draft will be more difficult than it was for those in the Vietnam era. College and even Canada won't be options. In 2001, Canada and the United States signed a "smart border declaration," which could be used to keep would-be draft dodgers in. The declaration involves a 30-point plan which implements a "pre-clearance agreement" of people entering and departing each country. Underclassmen would only be able to postpone service until the end of their current semester. Seniors would have until the end of the academic year. Those wishing to claim conscientious objector status must show that service would be incompatible with their moral or ethical beliefs. Politics, expediency, or self-interest are not considered suitable reasons to avoid the draft. The local draft board would be responsible for deciding whether to approve the request.       0 Shares               Email      Star      Comments     Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you.      To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up »                  What Is the Draft and How Does It Work?       + War Resisters Remain in Canada with No Regrets   + Bringing Back the Draft?       Zuckerberg faces congressional grilling over Facebook user privacy, 2016 election          Trump administration bid to unravel bipartisan spending deal faces uphill climb          California only border state yet to announce National Guard deployment           Internal documents question EPA justification for Pruitt's security spending          Trump's homeland security adviser unexpectedly resigning          Trump-appointed US attorney recused from Michael Cohen investigation          Trump cancels South America trip because of Syria, White House says          Trump 'less inclined' to sit down with Mueller after raid on attorney: Sources          The Note: Facebook's self-regulation failure          Fox News host returns following boycott, says liberals 'cutting off free speech'          CBO: Higher deficit, stronger growth due to recent legislation          Trump calls raid on his personal lawyer's home and offices 'a disgrace'          Dad allegedly killed 5-year-old son by hitting him repeatedly: Affidavit          Cindy Hyde-Smith swearing in gives US Senate historic number of women          Florida Gov. Rick Scott enters Senate race, setting up expensive contest          Frustrated teachers turn activism into candidacies for local office          Inside Jared Kushner's personal crusade to reform America's prisons          Writing, speaking, meatball subs: Justice Gorsuch's 1st year          Amid trade fight, Trump says China will do the 'right thing'                                      Search                    Search                Home    Registration    Register Now    Check a Registration    Men 26 and OLDER    Forms    Why Register    Who Must Register    How to Register    Change of Information    Proof of Registration    State – Commonwealth Legislation    Women And Draft    Online Registration FAQ    Status Information Letter      Volunteers    Board Member Program    Registrar Program    State Volunteers      Public Affairs    Media    The Register Newsletter    Compliance Rates      Reports    Annual Report to Congress    FOIA    Financial Reports    Other Reports and Publications      FAQs    Fast Facts      About    Director's Biography    Agency Mission    Alternative Service    Quick Facts and Figures    Contact Information    Return to the Draft    Registration Resources               About Return to the Draft Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals          About the Agency     Director's Biography  What does the Agency provide for the Nation?  Agency Mission  Military Selective Service Act    Alternative Service  Alternative Service Employer Network  Conscientious Objector  The Courage of their Convictions      Agency Structure  Reserve Forces Officers  Local Boards    Quick Facts and Figures  History And Records  Background Of Selective Service  Past Directors of the Selective Service System  Induction Statistics  The Vietnam Lotteries    Contact Information  Records Information    Return to the Draft  Sequence of Events  Selective Service Lottery  How The Draft Has Changed Since Vietnam  Draft Cards  Medical Draft in Standby Mode  Classifications  Postponements, Deferments, Exemptions  Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals  Only Sons and Sole Surviving Sons  Effects of Marriage and Fatherhood on Draft Eligibility    Sources of Information on Selective Service  Registration Resources  Registration Resources  2015 Banner Ads  2014 Banner Ads  2013 Banner Ads  2012 Banner Ads  Older Banner Ads    Juvenile Justice Toolkit  Targeted Article  Fast Facts  Sample Social Media Post    Recreational Directors Toolkit  Board Member Resources  Immigration Attorneys Toolkit  Legislator and Community Leader Toolkit              Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals    U.S. non-citizens and dual nationals are required by law to register with the Selective Service System. Most are also liable for induction into the U.S. Armed Forces if there is a draft. They would also be eligible for any deferments, postponements, and exemptions available to all other registrants.   If There is a Military Draft Underway  However, some non-citizens and dual nationals would be exempt from induction into the military if there is a draft, depending on their country of origin and other factors. Some of these exemptions are shown below:  A non-citizen who has lived in the U.S. for less than one year is exempt from induction.  A dual national whose other country of nationality has an agreement with the U.S. which specifically provides for an exemption is exempt from induction  Some countries have agreements with the U.S. which exempt a non-citizen national who is a citizen of both that country and the U.S. from military service in the U.S. Armed Forces. A non-citizen who requests and is exempt under an agreement or bilateral treaty can never become a U.S. citizen, and may have trouble reentering the U.S. if he leaves.  A non-citizen who served at least a year in the military of a country with which the U.S. is involved in mutual defense activities will be exempt from military service if he is a national of a country that grants reciprocal privileges to citizens of the U.S.  During a draft, any claims for exemptions based on any of the above categories would be granted or denied by a man's Local Board .  Military examiners make the final decision about who will be accepted into the military.   Non-citizen and dual national men MUST still register with the Selective Service System.  They are not exempt from the registration requirement.                 Who Are you?    Men 18-25   Men 26 and Older   Men Born Before 1960   Veterans   Immigrants   Women   Students  SSS Employees         Influencers    Parents / Guardians Organizations U.S. Postal Employees Government Agencies Media  Financial Aid Officers         Volunteers    Board Members  Registrars  State Resource Volunteers         Reports     Annual Reports  FOIA  Financial Reports  EEO  Information Quality         Connect                        HOME | About Us | Contact Us | FAQs | Resources | Careers | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | FOIA | EEO | Accessibility | USA.gov         Copyright 2018 by Selective Service System                   Resistance News  Latest updates:   National Commission holding public hearings and taking written comments on draft registration  Next open-mike public hearing: Thursday, 19 April 2018, 3-5 p.m., Denver, CO  Podcast (35 min.): The Future of Draft Registration in the U.S. (Courage to Resist, 22 February 2018)  Op-Ed: Dump draft registration, don’t extend it to women ( San Francisco Chronicle , 4 June 2016; PDF )               What To Do If You Don't Want To Be Drafted      These are your options if you don't want to be drafted:   Don't register with the Selective Service System.  Don't tell Selective Service your new address when you move.  Get lucky in the draft lottery.  Don't show up for induction.  Show up and flunk the physical.  Show up and refuse induction.  Convince the draft board that you're a conscientious objector , and do alternative service.  Convince the draft board that you qualify for some other deferment (most people don't).  Leave the country, or hide, for the rest of your life.  Tell your Representative in Congress to support H.R. 4523 "To repeal the Military Selective Service Act, and thereby terminate the registration requirements of such Act and eliminate civilian local boards, civilian appeal boards, and similar local agencies of the Selective Service System." Urge Senators to introduce a similar bill.  Organize now against the draft.   The surest way not to be drafted is to prevent the draft entirely. This leaflet explains how you can help protect yourself from the draft by joining in the resistance to the draft and wars.   [San Francisco, 22 March 1980. Photo by Chris Booth for Resistance News ]  Will There Be A Draft?  With the U.S. at war in Iraq, Afghanistan, and more and more other countries, recruiters won't be able to meet their quotas forever. With American soldiers dying every day in foreign wars and occupations, people don't want to enlist no matter how desperate they are for a job. Even if the fighting stops soon, U.S. troops will probably stay in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Gulf for years. If Army recruits have to spend years sitting in the desert in a hostile country, who's going to volunteer next year ... or the year after? Members of Congress are already talking about bringing back the draft -- but they're afraid of draft resistance, which has already made draft registration unenforceable .  Who Will Be Drafted?  The first people to get drafted will probably be doctors, nurses, and other health care workers (both men and women). The military was short of health care workers even before the current wars began, and as the bodies pile up Congress may authorize a "Doctor Draft" of medical professionals. Selective Service has contingency plans for a Health Care Personnel Delivery System to draft men and women ages 20 through 44 who are doctors, nurses, technicians, therapists, or other medical professionals. (One way for such people not to be drafted -- unless they are also young men eligible for the general draft -- is to give up their medical or professional licenses. But they'll have to do it before they are drafted. Unless you're already thinking about a career change, that's not much of a choice.) For more on the health workers draft, see www.MedicalDraft.info .  If there is a draft for cannon fodder, men who registered for the draft (if you didn't register, you won't be drafted) and who turn 20 this year would be called up first. In 2016, men born in 1996 would be drafted first. It would be up to Congress, when it decides to reinstate authority for inductions, to decide whether or not to include women .   Will Women Be Drafted?   A draft of health care workers would include women as well as men. Only men are currently required to register or would be included in a general draft. But Congress is currently considering proposals to expand draft registration to women as well as proposals to end draft registration entirely . Young women (up until their 26th birthday) need to think about what they will do if they are ordered to register for the draft, and organize now against the draft.  What Will Happen To Me?  If you get drafted, you'll get a letter giving you ten days to report for a pre-induction medical exam. If you show up, pass the physical, and submit to induction, they'll put you on a bus to basic training the same day.  We can't give you any guarantees about what will happen. There is a lot you can do to keep from being drafted, but luck plays a big role. The government can always violate its own policies or invent new ones. You have to weigh the uncertain legal risks of resisting the draft, against the very clear hazards of submitting to the draft -- the choices aren't easy.  If the Vietnam War draft is a guide, the odds favor people who resist. Most of the people who resisted illegally -- especially those who never registered -- were never caught. They weren't drafted, they didn't go to prison, and they were never even charged in court. Even of the 210,000 men who were formally accused of violating the draft laws, only 4,000 went to prison. Another 5,000 got probation, and 41,000 avoided prosecution by submitting to induction. The rest -- more than 75% -- were either never caught, never went to trial, won in court, or flunked their induction physicals!  What If I Didn't Register?  You're not alone. Millions of men have refused to register since 1980, and millions more have violated the draft laws in other ways. Only 20 nonregistrants were prosecuted,  none since 1986! Most nonregistrants will never be caught, even if there's a draft.  If you decide to resist registration or induction, you'll probably get warning letters from Selective Service. These letters are usually junk mail, and you are unlikely to be prosecuted for ignoring them. In 2015, the SSS forwarded 146,000 names and addresses of suspected nonregistrants to the Justice Department. None of them were investigated or prosecuted. It's been like that every year since 1988, when the Justice Department refused to investigate or prosecute any more draft registration resisters.  Men who haven't registered for the draft are ineligible for Federal student aid and some other Federal benefits. But you can register without penalty at any time until you turn 26. The safest course of action if you don't want to risk being drafted, but also don't want to risk being penalized later in life for not having registered for the draft, is probably to wait until just before your 26th birthday, and register then.  The dangerous letters are Certified or Registered letters (letters you have to sign for). Don't sign for any letter from Selective Service or the Justice Department. Your signature is evidence that you know you are supposed to register or appear for induction. Refuse to accept the letter, and see a draft counselor or lawyer immediately.  Even if you are caught, there's a good chance you won't be prosecuted. The courts are already overwhelmed by the war on drugs; the government could only afford to prosecute a few token or outspoken draft resisters.  Most people who are caught will be able to avoid prosecution by registering and submitting to the draft. Even the vocal public nonregistrants prosecuted in the early 1980s were allowed to register without penalty up until the day they went on trial.  Some will choose to go to trial, and a few may not get that "last chance" to register. A criminal record is no laughing matter, but many draft resisters imprisoned during the Vietnam War, as well as some of the 20 nonregistrants prosecuted in the early 1980s , now hold professional jobs in business, in academia, and with non-governmental organizations. Most are proud of what they did and would do it again. Besides, is life in a minimum-security prison any worse than life in the Army? Some of us who have been there think not.  But What If I Already Registered?  If Selective Service doesn't know where you live, they might never find you. When the GAO audited the Selective Service in 1982, they estimated that 20-40% of the addresses in SSS records were wrong. There hasn't been an audit since then, but today the figure is probably a lot higher -- 50% or more. So, again, you're not alone. Almost nobody tell the Selective Service when they move. If you don't tell Selective Service where you live, or if you ignore an induction notice, the same legal risks we talked about for nonregistrants would apply. In order to prosecute you, they would have to prove that you actually knew you were breaking the law. That will be very difficult without proof that you got their notices. So if they finally found you, you could probably avoid prosecution by submitting to the draft at that point.  You should think about what you want your parents (or whoever lives at the address you gave when you registered) to do if the government comes looking for you. If you want to resist the draft and your parents support you, they can help by sending back, unopened, any mail for you from Selective Service. You can help yourself by doing the same thing.  It's a crime to lie to Selective Service or the FBI, but you have the right to remain silent. When they say, "Anything you say will be used against you," they mean it. Your family doesn't have to accept mail for you, or tell the Feds where you live or anything else about you.  What If I Refuse To Go?  If you ignore your induction notice, and they find you, you'll almost certainly be given another chance to cooperate. Selective Services records are so inaccurate that tens of thousands of people will never receive their induction notices. Selective Service will probably assume you're one of them.  If you get a draft notice, show up, and refuse induction, you'll probably be prosecuted . However, some people will slip through the cracks in the system, and some will win in court.  If you show up and take the physical, there's a good chance that you'll flunk. (If you have a medical problem that would make it hard for you to be a soldier, you should see a draft counselor and a doctor now and get documentation of your condition.) But if you pass, you'll really be stuck. Those who get that far and then refuse induction will be much easier to find and convict than those who don't show up at all.  If you pass the physical and then don't want to go, tell the soldiers who are ordering you around that you are refusing to be inducted. Remember: once you submit to induction, you'll be under military law, which is much harsher than civilian law. Don't take that step.  Can I Go To Canada?  Maybe, but you can't count on it. So far, Canada has refused to grant sanctuary to U.S. military resisters. Like other countries, Canada has its own unemployment and economic problems, and doesn't welcome unskilled young Americans. If your asylum claim is denied, and you don't meet the qualifications for Canadian immigration, you'd be deported back to the U.S. Health care workers might be more welcome, though licensing might present a problem. workers might be more welcome, though licensing might present a problem.  If you have or can get citizenship in another country, if you're familiar with the language and culture, if you think you'd like to live there for the rest of your life, and if you have resources to get there and establish yourself, then emigration might make sense. If you leave the U.S. after you get an induction notice, you risk prosecution if you ever come back.  What About Deferments?  To get a deferment you must register, notify Selective Service whenever you move, and then apply for a deferment within a few days of receiving your induction notice. By applying for a deferment, you admit you received the induction notice, which will make it harder to wean in court if you later decide to refuse induction.  If you're opposed to all war you might qualify as a conscientious objector , although you'd still have to do alternative service. There are several other deferments, but very few people will qualify for them. (Students are not exempt from the draft or likely to be deferred.) If you plan to try for a deferment, you should talk to a draft counselor now . Once draft notices go out, there won't be enough time or enough draft counselors.  Why Break The Law?  People resist the draft for many reasons . If you're healthy and can't qualify as a conscientious objector, breaking the law is probably the only way you can avoid being drafted.  The most useful thing you can do today to to keep from being drafted is to organize against the draft ! Members of Congress are worried about the domestic unrest a draft will provoke -- and if the price looks too high, they won't dare try to draft you or anybody else.  If enough of us resist now , no one will be drafted.  Download this leaflet as a 2-sided 1-sheet PDF.             What to do? | Why? | Women | History | Prosecutions  Home | About | Blog | Leaflets | Posters | Links   Resisters.info  MedicalDraft.info  Hasbrouck.org                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The Balance         What You Need to Know About the U.S. Military Draft    Menu        Search            Go            Go      Personal Finance    Budgeting    Retirement Decisions    Home Buying    Credit & Debt    View All       Money Hacks    Contests    Frugal Living    Freebies    Couponing    View All       Your Career    Job Searching    Management & Leadership    Human Resources    Career Planning    View All       Small Business    Small Business    Online Business    Entrepreneurship    Business Law & Taxes    View All       Investing    Investing for Beginners    Stocks    US Economy    Mutual Funds    View All                        US Military Careers        Joining the Military      Military Branches      Military Jobs      Military Pay & Benefits      Military Retirement      Military Family Programs      Military Publications      Wars and Deployments      Military Shopping      Military Jokes & Humor      Military Justice      Military Bases      View All           US Military Careers   Joining the Military   What You Need to Know About the U.S. Military Draft   United States Selective Service System       Share       Flip       Pin       Share       Email          •••  The military draft lottery system.
sss.gov     By  Rod Powers    Updated February 14, 2018   The Armed Forces of the United States maintain their readiness through voluntary enlistment, but the law requires young men to register through the Selective Service System. This allows a draft to be activated if needed, as was used during the Vietnam War. The draft was not used for the Gulf War or the War on Terrorism. The information below is available in more detail at Selective Service System .         Who Must Register With the Selective Service System? Almost all male U.S. citizens, and male aliens living in the U.S., who are 18 through 25, are required to register with the Selective Service as imposed by the Military Selective Service Act Even non-citizens must register if they are not in the U.S. on a valid student or visitor visa or part of a diplomatic or trade mission. Selective Service does not collect or share information on immigration status. Undocumented as well as legal permanent residents must register if they came to the country before their 26th birthday. Dual nationals must register. If you are hospitalized or incarcerated, you don't have to register until you are discharged, if you are still below the age of 26. If you are disabled, you must still register if you can leave your home and move about independently. Transgender rules: If you were born female and had a gender change, you don't have to register. If you were born male and had a gender change, you must register.   Women and people born female are not required to register, but that can be changed if Congress changes the law. There is no exemption for only sons, last son to carry the family name or sole surviving sons . What Is the Draft? President Franklin Roosevelt signed the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 which created the country's first peacetime draft and formally established the Selective Service System as an independent Federal agency.         Even before this, our country has a long history of drafting citizens to serve in the armed forces. From 1948 until 1973, during both peacetime and periods of conflict, men were drafted to fill vacancies in the armed forces which could not be filled through voluntary means. The draft ended in 1973, and the U.S. converted to an all-volunteer military. The registration requirement was suspended in April 1975. It was resumed again in 1980 by President Carter in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Registration continues today as a hedge against underestimating the number of servicemen needed in a future crisis. The obligation of a man to register is imposed by the Military Selective Service Act. The Act establishes and governs the operations of the Selective Service System. Draft Lottery System After Congress voted and the President signed the law to reinstate the draft,  The selective service would be activated, and they would initiate a draft lottery, which is based on the birth dates of registrants The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) developed a unique random calendar and number selection program for Selective Service. Using this random selection method for birthdays, each day of the year is selected by computer in a random manner, and that date is placed in a capsule and loaded in a large drum on a random basis.         By the same method, numbers from 1 to 365 (366 for men born in a leap year) are also selected in a random fashion, placed in capsules, and the capsules are placed into a second drum. Official observers certify that the capsule-filling and drum-loading were conducted according to established procedures. This certification is secured to each drum; they are sealed and placed in secure storage. Here is how the lottery would work: One capsule is drawn from the drum containing birth dates January 1 through December 31. One capsule is then drawn from the drum containing the sequence numbers from 1 through 365 (366 if the draft will call men born during a leap year) and the date and number are paired to establish the sequence number for each birth date. This is done in full view of all observers, officials, and the media.  Registrants with low lottery numbers are ordered to report for a physical, mental, and moral evaluation at a Military Entrance Processing Station to determine whether they are fit for military service. Once he is notified of the results of the evaluation, a registrant will be given 10 days to file a claim for exemption, postponement, or deferment. The MEPs would then apply a classification to the inductee. Each inductee is classified based on their beliefs and circumstances, determining who is deferred or exempted. Draft Classifications Classifications are only applied once the draft is activated by the Congress and the President. At that time, inductees are assessed and can apply for exemptions, deferments, and postponements from military service. A man may appeal his classification to a Selective Service Appeal Board. Here is a list of some, though not all, current classifications and what they mean: The most common codes are the following 1-A: Available immediately for military service. 1-O: Conscientious Objector 4-F: Not Qualified for Military Service due to medical reasons. For all the codes available to students, religious followers, or other reasons see official Selective Service Page.  All Voluntary Military - How Shortages Are Addressed Without a Draft In an age of no draft, the ways to increase recruiting numbers fall on the addition of bonuses, recruiting incentives, education benefits, and reducing stiff recruiting standards (age, criminal offenses, education standards). In 2005, the Army had a tough four-month period where they missed their monthly recruiting goals, and then their annual recruiting goal by about 8,000 troops. This was because Congress had authorized the active-duty Army to increase by 20,000 troops, and the Army tried to do this all in one year. Instead of a draft, the Army addressed the issue by adding more recruiters, implementing new recruiting incentives , including increasing enlistment bonuses and raising the maximum enlistment age . The Army also accepted more prior service applicants, set higher college loan repayment limits and increased the Army College Fund contributions. The active duty services were able to meet their recruiting goals. Reasons Why A Draft Is Highly Unlikely In The Future Unless it is total World War III, reinstating the draft would have a negative impact on today's military if any immediate impact at all. The draft is not a quick fix. Training Considerations: The Military has been an all-volunteer service of highly-trained professionals who have committed themselves to serving. During that time, the military has dramatically (and successfully!) changed the way it trains and the way it fights. To implement a draft, the military would have to change the entire way the it trains and operates today. No Immediate Answer: It would take 18-24 months to recruit and train draftees and form them into new combat units. Standards Would Drop: With the military composed of volunteers, the services have been able to impose strict qualifications for duty. If we were to reinstate the draft and the military was forced to accept everyone regardless of criminal records, test scores, or medical qualifications, the armed forces would be larger, but less effective. High Costs: We cannot afford to bring even a small percentage of our 18 to 25-year-old population into active duty. Mandatory service would add millions of men to the rolls of what is already the highest military budget in the world. They would have to be trained, fed, clothed, equipped and housed. They would at times require medical attention. Additional barracks would have to be built, plus married soldiers would receive housing allowances.                                           Continue Reading   +                         Who Has To Apply For The Draft?             Army National Call to Service (NCS) Enlistments             Can Foreigners Serve in the United States Military?             How to Join the Army             US Navy Advanced Enlistments Ranks - What You Should Know             Immigrants and Non-Citizens in the US Armed Forces             Here Are Some Enlistment Standards of the United States Military             Want to Enlist in the Air Force? All the Info You Need                  Getting Ready to Serve? Get the ABCs of the ASVAB             Learn About the Military's Delayed Enlistment Program             How Old Can You Be To Enlist In The Military?             Top 10 Lies (Some) Military Recruiters Tell Applicants             Army Raises War Time Age Requirement             Learn the Many Ways to Become a Navy Commissioned Officer             What Happens When You Go To MEPS to Ship Out?             Examples of False Statements on Recruiting Paperwork                    The Balance. Make Money Personal.        Our Best Money Tips, Delivered      Email Address    Sign up       You're in! Thanks for signing up.  There was an error. Please try again.       Stay Connected                                 Personal Finance  Money Hacks  Your Career  Small Business  Investing     About Us  Advertise  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact                   ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           What are the chances of being drafted in the US Selective Service?    I want to immigrate to the USA. I will most likely get my green card from 21-26 years of age. I know that I will have to apply for selective service and just have a few questions. First, when I get to the age of 26, will I no longer be drafted? Secondly, what are the chances of being selected. And finally, I am in...  show more  I want to immigrate to the USA. I will most likely get my green card from 21-26 years of age. I know that I will have to apply for selective service and just have a few questions. First, when I get to the age of 26, will I no longer be drafted? Secondly, what are the chances of being selected. And finally, I am in no way a fighing person, so will I HAVE to fight if I am selected? Or can I do other duty's, like first aid or driving for the US Armed Forces? Thanks for you help.         Follow      9 answers  9    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Demi Lovato      Jimmy Kimmel      Kim Zolciak      Shohei Ohtani      AARP      Luxury Sedan      Jordan Mailata      Samsung Phone Deal      Bon Jovi      John Cena          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  First, as has been pointed out, there is no draft at present in the US.  Second, if the draft is reinstated, your chances of being drafted pretty much depends on the needs of the military.  I you're drafted, the odds that you'll see combat are rather high. The default service in a draft is Army. And, unless you score incredibly high on the ASVAB, the default job is infantry.  However, you might consider joining another branch... before you're drafted... like the Air Force. Most of the time it's like a civilian job... except that you wear uniform to work. But, unless they're guarding the flight line, I suspect none of them ever touch a weapon after they leave basic training. From what I've heard from guys coming back from the Middle East, their bases are guarded by Marines or Army.  ADDENDA:  "The military is full. They're turning away people." The military is not "full." It's seriously lacking in quality, career-minded personnel. Were that not the case, they would close the recruiting offices, eliminate those ridiculous bonuses, and halt waivers.  They're turning away people because so many of them are uneducated (don't have a high school diploma), too weak (too fat, too out of shape, or have other physical inadequacies), or are too immoral (have criminal records). Not my idea... http://www.sphere.com/2009/11/03/70-perc...   The strength of the military lies in its senior personnel. Too many applicants are only in it for the short term... just long enough to qualify for the benefits... then they're out. In the mean time the senior personnel are getting older and retiring. Some see the quality (or lack thereof) of the kids coming in and are taking early retirement.  "There's no chance the draft will be reinstated." I'm not sure. There seems to be more concern about being drafted recently. While reinstating the draft would likely improve the quality of the military and reduce the cost, I'm unaware of any politician with enough concern for the country to make a move to do so. But, if there's no chance, why the concern?      Source(s):      gugliamo00  · 8 years ago       8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   There's some confusion over what 'the draft' is. It's called "Selective service", and yes, the United States reserves the right to call all fit males ages 18-28 into military service in the event of a national emergency. However at this point it would be political suicide for anything less than foreign soldiers occupying US soil. That said, the selective service registration probably isn't what you think it is. The government already knows who you are, where you live, etc. They have your tax records, voter registration, DMV information, etc. Selective service isn't to "put you in the system". You're already in the system. Selective service registration is just to positively identify you as "John Smith #241" out of all the other John Smiths out there. Will you get in trouble if you don't turn in the card? No. You'd just start getting bombarded with reminder notices to fill out the card and return it every time you did any sort of government registration (vote, DMV, file your taxes, etc). The government only fines the people who refuse to fill out the card. Selective service USED to be about actually putting you in the system, but that was back when computers ran on punch cards. Today it's just a formality because... well... it would cost more money to do away with the system than to just keep it operational. Government bureaucratic agencies are allergic to change.       lilia  · 2 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       There is no Draft right now, so chances are, you will not be selected. When you reach 26, you will certainly not be drafted unless you are some kind of hyperspatial engineer and the government finds itself badly in need of one.  If you are against war, you can apply for Conscientious Objector status, which means you will be given non-combat duties.       HDH  · 8 years ago      2  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       The odds of having a draft ever coming back are about 100,000,000:1.  Why kids always worry about this like it is coming tomorrow is beyond me.  If a draft ever comes back, it will be because tanks are rolling down your neighborhood streets already.  Also, it does not mean that when you get to the age of 26, you can no longer be drafted.  It merely means that if you have not registered by the time you are 26 years old, you forfeit benefits like educational loans.  It is a REQUIREMENT by law that you register for the selective service.  If you want to be a part of this country so bad, then don't start off by breaking the law.  Part of what has made this country endure is that its citizens have been willing to take up arms or do whatever else is necessary to ensure that we continue to exist.  If everyone thought like you and just sucked up all the benefits, but would not give a little sweat and blood to defend the nation, we would have fallen a long time ago.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 8 years ago      5  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Nobody has been drafted in the United States since 1975.       Mark F  · 8 years ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         Every branch of the military is actually turning down people because they're so full. There is absolutely no chance of a draft any time soon.       RiskyBiz  · 8 years ago      6  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       0% chance. The US military, for now, is a voluntary service. If there were another World War, there could be a draft implemented, but your safe for now. ;-)       silentP  · 8 years ago      6  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       If you are NOT willing to fight for the USA, perhaps YOU shouldn't immigrate to a nation full of Patriots!!!       Gabe Gable Jr  · 8 years ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       There is currently no draft       Open  eyes to  Joker’s Lies  · 8 years ago      4  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                  Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Consolidate Your Student Loans   Find Email Marketing Software   Online education an option?   Get an MBA while working              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What are the chances of being drafted in the US Selective Service?        What are the chances of the military draft?        US citizenship denied due to non application of selective services?       More questions       I turned 18 20 days ago and my older sister is telling me I need to sign up for selective service?        Selective service ? is it rly needed?          Answer Questions    Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?        Going through a tough time in life. After high school I didnt think everything would be so depressing. I cant find a job, should I join army?        I'm going into the marines as an officer. Do they have more freedoms? Do they get to use their own cell phones, housing, and showers?        How long can your hair be in the army?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  12 answers     More questions       Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers      I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                Will There Be A Draft If We Go To War? North Korea's Threats Are Increasingly Foreboding By Kelly Tunney Aug 10 2017 Ian Hitchcock/Getty Images News/Getty Images This week, Americans found out that North Korea had created nuclear weapons small enough to attach to missiles. And in response, President Donald Trump vowed to unleash "fire and fury like the world has never seen" if the country threatened the United States. Given this tension, some people may be starting to wonder what might happen if things escalate into war. And one of those big questions remains: If the United States goes to war with North Korea, would there be a draft ? The most likely answer is no. The last time a draft was enacted in the United States was during the Vietnam War, four decades ago. According to ABC News, the draft was first established in 1940 . It was known as the Selective Training and Service Act. In 1973, it was discontinued, but President Carter reinstated it in 1980. In order for a new draft to take place, Congress would have to pass legislation to authorize a draft and Trump would also have to approve it. Then, a lottery would kick in. According to the Selective Service System, the lottery begins with males turning 20 years old the year the draft is enacted. Then it calls upon males ages 21 to 25. If needed, 18- and 19-year-olds could be drafted last, but it's not a likely possibility. Those who are requested are gathered and evaluated on a mental, physical, and moral basis to see if they are fit for service. Those who pass and do not seek deferment are then inducted into the service. Just because there isn't a need for a draft right now doesn't mean that Americans don't have to register, though. Most American men are required to register for the draft at age 18 through Selective Service. If they don't, they could be disqualified for federal financial aid, citizenship, federal job training, and federal jobs, according to ABC News. Questions about who is eligible for the draft would also arise. Trump recently declared that the U.S. military would no longer welcome transgender Americans . And women are currently not included in the draft. In 2016, the Senate passed a bill for women to register for the draft attached to a spending bill. However, the House of Representatives passed a different version of the bill and former President Barack Obama signed a version of the bill into law that did not include a requirement for women to sign up for the draft, even though the government opened up combat roles to women in 2015. So, if a draft were to take place, it would be for men ages 18 to 25. Dan Kitwood/Getty Images News/Getty Images According to the Selective Service System, a draft is put in place when a crisis occurs that need more troops than the military has volunteers. And nuclear weapons use might negate the need for a draft. The more powerful the weapons countries use to harm one another, the less reason there might be for ground combat and sending Americans out to fight. So, the chance of a draft happening in the case of a war could be low, but there's always a possibility, especially with a president who often declares orders without informing government channels. Homepage career inspo News Entertainment Beauty Fashion Lifestyle Flowcharts Books Tech Food Wellness Features Company About Us Advertise Apps Labs Terms Privacy DMCA Contact Us ® 2018 Bustle     close this window jump to content my subreddits edit subscriptions popular - all - random - users | AskReddit - worldnews - videos - funny - todayilearned - pics - gaming - movies - news - gifs - mildlyinteresting - aww - Showerthoughts - television - Jokes - science - OldSchoolCool - sports - IAmA - Documentaries - TwoXChromosomes - explainlikeimfive - personalfinance - books - tifu - Futurology - dataisbeautiful - WritingPrompts - nottheonion - food - Music - photoshopbattles - EarthPorn - philosophy - Art - nosleep - GetMotivated - askscience - LifeProTips - space - UpliftingNews - DIY - history - gadgets - creepy - listentothis - blog - announcements - InternetIsBeautiful more »  answers comments Want to join? Log in or sign up in seconds. | English limit my search to r/answers use the following search parameters to narrow your results: subreddit: subreddit find submissions in "subreddit" author: username find submissions by "username" site: example.com find submissions from "example.com" url: text search for "text" in url selftext: text search for "text" in self post contents self:yes (or self:no) include (or exclude) self posts nsfw:yes (or nsfw:no) include (or exclude) results marked as NSFW e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... this post was submitted on 07 Apr 2017 85  points (89% upvoted) shortlink: remember me reset password login Submit a new text post answers subscribe unsubscribe 139,592  readers 772  users here now Everything you ever wanted to know about anything but were afraid to ask. Especially things someone else might Google for some day. Questions must have fact based answers.  Please note that " /r/AskReddit " style posts, troll/shit posts, or other extremely inappropriate posts will be removed.  Go ahead and ask your questions, reddit!  ALL comments must be helpful and related to the topic at hand.   Rules :   No Unhelpful Answers    All comments must be helpful and relevant. Questions are ok; memes are not!    No survey questions    These questions will be better for /r/DAE  /r/AskReddit    No trolling/shit posts    Baiting people, passive aggressive posts etc. is not allowed    Don't be a jerk    Remember the human.    Other related subreddits:  /r/legaladvice  /r/findareddit  /r/AskScience  /r/AskHistorians   /r/WhatsThisBug/  /r/ExplainLikeImFive/  /r/AskReddit  /r/Estimation  /r/AskSocialScience   /r/TipofMyTongue   /r/TechSupport   /r/WhatIsThisThing  /r/NeedAdvice  If you believe one of your posts has been removed in error, please do not hesitate to message the mods .   created by raldi a community for 9 years message the moderators MODERATORS Pressureftw ketralnis RyJones heylookatme AnswersMod AutoModerator BotBust SnortWhoresFuckCoke BasedOnAir about moderation team » discussions in r/answers < > X 32 · 17 comments  What's a job that requires minimal training/school that can be done while being alone? 44 · 92 comments  Why is there not a commonly used term for prejudice or discrimination against the poor? 9 · 2 comments  What does a white-collar FBI raid look like? 8 · 3 comments  Why do people with Down Syndrome look the same? 3 · 3 comments  Is Skype for Business free? 3 · 5 comments  should i still use my phone after it was with me while taking a head ct ? 4 · 3 comments  If you get bitten on the toe by a toe biter why does it cause your foot to itch? 3 · 3 comments  Why do some comments disappear? 17 · 4 comments  Is Mark Zuckerberg’s hearing going to be aired live? · 2 comments  What's with the Overwatch pedo thing? Welcome to Reddit, the front page of the internet. Become a Redditor and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. × 84 85 86 If I get drafted into the military in the United States, do I get to choose the branch of service I enter? If I get drafted into the military in the United States, do I get to choose the branch of service I enter?  ( self.answers ) submitted 1 year ago by m4cktheknife 30 comments share save hide report all 30 comments sorted by: best top new controversial old random q&a live (beta) Want to add to the discussion? Post a comment! Create an account 6 [–] vmsmith  73 0 Answer Link 72 points 73 points 74 points  1 year ago  (3 children) I came of draft age at the tail end of the Vietnam era -- when the draft was still in place -- and the deal back then was that if you got drafted, you were usually going into the Army. This was one of the drivers for people enlisting in the other services.  What made this a difficult choice -- getting drafted or enlisting -- was that getting drafted in the Army entailed a two-year obligation, but enlisting in the Air Force or Navy was usually a three or four year obligation.  The Marine Corps was a special case. Given that Marines were dying at pretty high rates in Vietnam, they had a somewhat challenging task.  Because of that, I believe you could enlist for shorter periods in the Marines. And I heard stories -- perhaps apocryphal -- that from time to time the Marine Corps would be way short of a monthly quota, and the Marine recruiters were allowed to walk through the ranks of draftees at the local induction centers and cherry pick the ones they wanted for the Marines.  All that said, I have no idea of how it would work should the U.S. institute a draft today.   permalink embed save give gold [–] 19chevycowboy74  34 points 35 points 36 points  1 year ago  (0 children) In regards of the last bit there about the Marines. My great uncle was a Marine in Vietnam and, according to him, that is exactly how he became a Marine. He was drafted I to the Army and at the induction center they had them all line up and then walked down the line and picked people, including him, to become part of the Marine Corps.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] [deleted]  11 points 12 points 13 points  1 year ago  (0 children) I had a coworker who said he chose to enlist in the Marines rather than get drafted and have no say in the matter. So he enlisted and like four months later they ended the draft.  The good news was that he didn't have to go to Nam, but he was a Marine for the next several years, bumping around bases in the Pacific.   permalink embed save parent [–] [deleted]  0 points 1 point 2 points  1 year ago  (0 children) My grandpa enlisted in the army before the war started. Basic didn't bother him, as he was 6'3" and in great physical shape. After graduating, he was doing ID production work and had his own office in Chicago. Last 6 months of his enlistment, he was suddenly shipped to Vietnam as the war was suddenly escalating. He got shitface the night his plane left. Slept the whole way. Airport under attack. 3 Americans dead. Became combat photographer. Took pics of dead people. Came back changed. Described himself as "the young boy from the boonies...gone forever." He had a shitty career outside of HS and says the army was the best thing he ever did. He got his shit together and retired happy. So ya, he enlisted and managed to stay out of most of the fighting as he was a an ID production manager.   permalink embed save parent [–] [deleted]  47 0 Answer Link 46 points 47 points 48 points  1 year ago  (12 children) There is no draft. Should laws pass instituting a draft then they would address whether you could choose a branch; until and unless the laws pass there is no answer.   permalink embed save [–] m4cktheknife [ S ]  25 points 26 points 27 points  1 year ago  (11 children) I understand. Thankfully there is no draft yet. Do you know how previous drafts have worked? Was choice implemented?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] LaLongueCarabine  16 points 17 points 18 points  1 year ago  (8 children) You would not get any choice in the matter.  But you don't have to worry, there will never be another draft in the US, not as long as people who can remember Vietnam are alive.  You're fine.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] rugger62  12 points 13 points 14 points  1 year ago  (6 children) IDK, there was real worry about whether Congress was going to call a draft after 911. We didn't have the manpower that the Pentagon said was necessary and the only way would have been through a draft. Rumsfeld said fuck it and went in light. And here we are 16 years later still at war in the Middle East.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] JefftheBaptist  11 points 12 points 13 points  1 year ago  (3 children)  IDK, there was real worry about whether Congress was going to call a draft after 911.   The only person actually calling for a draft after 9/11 was Charlie Rangel (D-NY) and he was doing it for entirely partisan purposes.  Neither Bush nor the US military actually wanted one.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] rugger62  1 point 2 points 3 points  1 year ago  (1 child) Wasn't he one of the most influential people in Congress at the time?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] JefftheBaptist  1 point 2 points 3 points  1 year ago  (0 children) He was influential within the Congressional Black Caucus and perhaps the Democratic Party as a whole, but for most of this period the Republicans controlled congress.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] FoxMcWeezer  0 points 1 point 2 points  1 year ago  (1 child) Can you explain what the hell good a draft would do if they force NEETs like most of Reddit to combat, won't they just get in the way of real soldiers?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] rugger62  0 points 1 point 2 points  1 year ago  (0 children) The majority of the military is in support roles, although front line troops are drafted when the manpower is needed. The concept of bullet sponge goes back to WW2 iirc   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] m1ss1ontomars2k4  0 points 1 point 2 points  1 year ago  (0 children) Uh, that sort of sounds like it would end soon. Vietnam was 50 years ago.   permalink embed save parent give gold [+] [deleted]  comment score below threshold -11 points -10 points -9 points  1 year ago  (1 child) I am not familiar. Hopefully someone else can answer.  I am familiar with "stop-loss." It's often called a backdoor draft. In a nutshell, you agree to serve for X years and when your time is up the government tells you that you can't leave and you have to remain. It's controversial. If you're interested in past conscription in the US then I'm sure someone else can shed a lot more light than me.   permalink embed save parent [–] ExpatJundi  30 points 31 points 32 points  1 year ago  (0 children) That's not an accurate statement. When you join the American military, you sign up for an eight year obligation. It is made very, very clear to you at the time. Generally, this is four years of active duty and four years of inactive duty where you are essentially a civilian who can be recalled or not allowed to get out at the end of your four years. This did occur during OIF/OEF. There was nothing backdoor draft-y about it, each and every person signed a contract knowing that this was a possibility.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] JimDixon  11 0 Answer Link 10 points 11 points 12 points  1 year ago  (3 children) As I recall during the Vietnam war, almost all draftees went into the army, almost never the navy or air force or marines or coast guard. There may have occasionally been exceptions, but generally, those branches didn't need to draft anyone because there were plenty of enlistees.  Everyone knew that the army was the most dangerous branch to be in; it's where you had the greatest chance of being killed or wounded. So if you expected to be drafted, you might try to avoid it by enlisting in one of the other branches. As I recall, if you were drafted, you would only have to serve 2 years, but for an enlistee, the minimum was 4 years. If you enlisted, you were not only safer, but you had a better chance of going to some other country than Vietnam (for example, there were large bases in Germany), and you had a better chance to learn some skill that would be useful after you got out of the military (for example, most jobs in the air force had some counterpart in the airline industry).   permalink embed save give gold [–] IKnowUThinkSo  2 points 3 points 4 points  1 year ago  (2 children) My father enlisted in the navy a week before he received his draft notice. He became a corpsman and had a cushy time in the South China Sea on a destroyer while a lot of his friends didn't come back at all.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] kamon405  0 points 1 point 2 points  11 months ago  (1 child) wow you wouldn't be alive if he went army.. crazy.. my dad was too young..  my grandpa on both sides of the family  they were born into the silent generation in the 1930s. so that meant they were too young for WWII and too old for Vietnam. They both served in airforce but  my grandpa on my mom's side served in Germany and on my dad's side did spend some time in Vietnam but mostly served in  Alaska...   My  parents were born in the 60s... my dad did get commissioned as an officer in the marine corps in the late 80s so he was in desert storm. but he did logistics. soooooo yea. basically my entire bloodline avoided the Vietnam war..  That's just some bad luck..   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] IKnowUThinkSo  0 points 1 point 2 points  11 months ago  (0 children) We have the opposite age ranges for generations. My father served in Vietnam as in the navy, his father served in the navy during Korea and my maternal grandfather served as an infantryman (specifically the finance department of the army though) during WW2.  Oh, and for double fun, none of those people who served were born here, my father included. They did it cause they loved what this country stood for.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] vey323  5 0 Answer Link 4 points 5 points 6 points  1 year ago  (0 children) No choice, much like no choice in what job they would give you - needs of the service. Likely to be the Army or Marines, who bear the brunt of casualties in war. Many folks voluntarily enlisted instead of being drafted, so they could pick their branch and (try to) pick their specialty.   permalink embed save give gold [–] romulusnr  3 0 Answer Link 2 points 3 points 4 points  1 year ago  (1 child) When I filled out the Selective Service form, I seem to recall having an option to check a box for a preferred service branch. I figured that's why they called it Selective Service. But it doesn't look like they have that option anymore.   permalink embed save give gold [–] m1ss1ontomars2k4  1 point 2 points 3 points  1 year ago  (0 children) No, it's because you may get selected, not because you get to select things...   permalink embed save parent give gold [+] thinkB4WeSpeak  comment score below threshold -56 0 Answer Link -57 points -56 points -55 points  1 year ago *  (6 children) When you turn 18 you have to register for selective service. This is where you choose the branch you want to go into if drafted.  Edit: Sorry for the misinformation. I thought when you filled out your selective service card that you put a preferred branch down.   permalink embed save give gold [–] m4cktheknife [ S ]  20 points 21 points 22 points  1 year ago  (2 children) Really? I don't remember that at all...   permalink embed save parent give gold [+] thinkB4WeSpeak  comment score below threshold -22 points -21 points -20 points  1 year ago  (1 child) Here's the website for selective service with a FAQ on the bottom. https://www.sss.gov/Home/Verification   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] Kiwispam84  18 points 19 points 20 points  1 year ago  (0 children) Where does it say you get to choose the branch you serve in?   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] ___ALIVEPUDDLE___  28 points 29 points 30 points  1 year ago  (1 child) You don't choose shit. You either sign up or have MPs show up at your door. Selective service is basically entering your information into a database so they know who the hell they're kidnapping when WW3 happens.   permalink embed save parent give gold [+] xblt  comment score below threshold -6 points -5 points -4 points  1 year ago  (0 children) Your post is lost in the downvote. Please post in the main thread.   permalink embed save parent give gold [–] kremlin888  4 points 5 points 6 points  1 year ago  (0 children) 100% bullshit   permalink embed save parent give gold about blog about advertising careers help site rules Reddit help center wiki reddiquette mod guidelines contact us apps & tools Reddit for iPhone Reddit for Android mobile website buttons <3 reddit gold redditgifts Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy . © 2018 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. π  Rendered by PID 35452 on  app-149  at 2018-04-10 20:37:54.569108+00:00 running b9b5b00 country code: US.                 Member-supported news for Southern California         Close      Member-supported news for Southern California  Listen Live    News       Covering SoCal    Changing Neighborhoods & Affordability    Commuting    Immigration    Infrastructure    Orange County    Public Safety    SoCal Economy    SoCal Politics    The Social Safety Net    Vets    Workplace      Categories    Local    US & World    Politics    Science    Arts & Entertainment    Business    Crime & Justice    Education    Health        Programs       Featured Programs    AirTalk®    FilmWeek    Take Two®    The Frame®      All Programs    Programs A-Z    Program Schedule    Podcasts    Archive      Events       KPCC In Person    KPCC In Person    Upcoming Events    Past Events      Get connected    KPCC Events Newsletter        Support Us       Membership    Become a Sustainer    Become a Member        About sustaining membership    Update your credit card    Member benefits    Ways to Support    Annual Gala      About Us      Connect with KPCC                Contact us    Become a source    Share a news tip    Learn more about us    About KPCC      People    Staff Directory    Executive leadership    Board of Trustees    Regional Advisory Council    Leadership Councils    Careers          @KPCC     KPCC      Donate Now                Donate        Menu     Close      Back          04:23                                               Become a KPCC Sponsor     MORE FROM THIS CATEGORY  Politics         Gov. Brown endorses incumbent Feinstein in US Senate race   April 10, 2018          Watch Live: Mark Zuckerberg faces questions from Senate committees   April 10, 2018          Trump's homeland security adviser resigns day after Bolton takes over   April 10, 2018       POPULAR NOW ON KPCC          The heat of the 90s is alive in Southern California   April 9, 2018          2 LAPD officers injured, suspect killed in shooting after pursuit   April 9, 2018          Who's watching the police? The state of civilian oversight in Southern California   April 9, 2018             Become a KPCC Sponsor      Politics  Here's how a modern military draft would work      Cristine Nguyen (L) and Vince McClure (R) do final checks one one of the Selective Service Systems two draft lottery machines prior to their monthly test. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Vince McClure, a program analyst at the Selective Service, checks on balls marked with birthdates loaded into the draft lottery machine. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      The controller for one of the two draft lottery machines owned by the Selective Service System. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Michael Young (L) and Vince McClure (R), program analysts at the Selective Service, do final checks on the draft lottery machines prior to their monthly test. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Rep. Alexander Pirnie, R-NY, draws the first capsule in the lottery drawing held on December 1, 1969.  The capsule contained the date, September 14. Selective Service System         John Ismay  |  October 13, 2015         Listen to story  04:23    Download this story 2.0MB                              Series: The Modern Military Draft     The last American was drafted in 1973, but the country maintains an elaborate infrastructure to re-activate the draft if it's ever needed. However, a lot has changed since the Vietnam War era. As part of the American Homefront project, KPCC reports on the evolving military draft.  Read part two in this series and let us know your thoughts on Facebook or in the comments below!    The military draft, dormant since the early 1970s, is back on lawmakers minds. More women taking combat roles in the services has prompted questions over whether they should also be required to register. But that's not the only way the draft has and could evolve.  First off, the obvious. The last American was drafted in 1973. President Jimmy Carter brought it out of deep freeze in 1981, after the U.S.S.R. invaded Afghanistan, once again requiring "male persons" to register on their eighteenth birthday. But it would basically take a Martian invasion, as Julie Lynn, California Director of the Selective Service joked to KPCC, to actually reinstate the draft.  Nevertheless, the Selective Service continues to be funded at about $23 million a year, and there are about 100 people in the U.S. who's job it is to be at the ready just in case.  Many work at Selective Service headquarters at Arlington, Virginia, which is also home to "The Machine."   Photo: Jagmeet Mac  On a recent Wednesday, Vince McClure, a program analyst at the Selective Service, wheeled it out so our photographer could take a look. The machine is actually two, clear, fish-tank-like hexagons manufactured by Garron, the same company that makes the devices used by a lot of state lottos.  Every month, McClure or one of his colleagues rolls out the machine, boots it up, and makes sure it’d be ready to jump into action, should duty call.  The first machine has white ping pong balls — the “precedence number,” McClure explains. “With numbers from one to 366. And the other has blue balls in it, with the dates of January 1 to December 31.”  Those are the birthdays.  In each machine, the racks drop balls into the tank and they mix, until one rolls into the tube. Each birthday gets paired with a precedence number.  If this were a real draft, the Selective Service would come for 20-year-olds first. So if you’re 20 years old, and your birthday pops up at the same time as precedence number one, that means you.  Next up would be: 21, 22, 23, 24-year-olds.  Then, the 18 and 19-year-olds.  And finally the draft would apply to 25 and 26-year-olds.  If someone is enrolled in an undergraduate degree program at the time they're drafted, the student would be allowed to finish their current semester -- then, they'd have to leave school for induction into the armed forces. But if the student is in their senior year of undergraduate studies at the time they're drafted, they'd be allowed to finish and graduate no matter which semester they're in.  The "student deferments" of the Vietnam era simply do not exist anymore. But local draft boards --there are more than 2,100 of them in 50 states and six territories — would hear requests for exemptions.  Unlike 'draft boards' of old, the local boards' job is not to decide who is drafted but rather to approve or disapprove requests for exemptions and deferments should a draft be held. Any applicant denied a deferment or exemption may appeal to a higher-level 'Area Board' and, above that, to a single 'National Board.'  None of these boards would actually meet in person unless Congress approves "mobilization" of the Selective Service. An agency official noted that the Selective Service's "Mobilization Plan" is unclassified, but nonetheless refused a KPCC reporter's request for the document.  While the boards aren't meeting today, and the agency has yet to be mobilized, the Selective Service does maintain an active lobbying campaign with individual state legislatures across the country.  Whether women would be included in any future draft is up in the air.  This story is a part of the American Homefront Project — a joint effort of KPCC, KUOW and WUNC — reporting on American military life and veterans.  Jagmeet Mac contributed to this report from Arlington, Va.         The best SoCal news in your inbox, daily.  Sign up to get KPCC's Short List newsletter.          Sign up      Related links    Should women be drafted? Congress may have to decide    Is the US all-volunteer military system developing a warrior class?    Panel To Recommend Allowing Women In Combat                                   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.  blog comments powered by Disqus      KPCC's Politics coverage is a Southern California resource provided by member-supported public radio. We can't do it without you.  Your contributions power KPCC.  Give today.             The Voice of Southern California        Support the voices you trust. Donate now.         Local  US & World  Arts & Entertainment  Crime & Justice  Science  Politics  Health  Business  Education      Take Two  AirTalk  Off-Ramp  The Frame  Program Schedule  Programs A-Z  KPCC In Person  About KPCC  Contact Us  Staff Directory  Careers        News  Programs  Events  Support  About        Our Partners                                    Terms & Conditions  Privacy  Feedback  © 2018 Southern California Public Radio            Play   Pause             /        Download    Mute   Unmute   X                    Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    History        History Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           History beta        Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  History Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for historians and history buffs. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         Percentage of the draft pool that were conscripted during WW2 and Vietnam         up vote  9  down vote  favorite  1      During the times of these conflicts I'm pretty sure the eligible ages to be drafted were from 18 - 25. During these times what percentage of US males between those ages were drafted. I'd like to be able to compare the number between WWII and Vietnam.  To put the question in perspective and dumb it down say (obviously false) during WWII the US at the time had 500,000 men between 18 - 25, 400,000 of which were drafted. So 80% of draft eligible males in the US at the time were drafted.    united-states  world-war-two  military  vietnam     share | improve this question      edited Feb 7 at 4:12             asked Apr 8 '14 at 15:48       CSharper   180 1 1 7              2      This issue is made more complicated by the number of men in both conflicts who may have signed up in anticipation of the draft, with the intention of picking a less dangerous fate. – NL7  Apr 8 '14 at 18:21            Another thing to consider - does eligible only mean of draft age , or do you consider males with deferments or exemptions to be ineligible? – Comintern  Apr 8 '14 at 23:23        add a comment |           1 Answer 1     active  oldest  votes            up vote  15  down vote  accepted      Wikipedia's page on conscription actually gives a pretty good breakdown.  In WWII, males between 18 and 64 were required to register, but the selections were limited by executive order on December 5, 1942 from from 21–45 to 18–38. Assuming the citation ( George Q. Flynn, The Draft, 1940–1973 ) is correct, 50 million men from 18 to 45 were registered. The Selective Service statistics page gives the total inductions during WWII as 10,110,104, which would indicate that the percentage would be somewhere around 20% were drafted based on registration.  By the Vietnam war, the draft age had changed to 18-26 by the Selective Service Act. The draft pool was around 27 million (apparently lifted verbatim from a paragraph from this paper ), and per the Selective Service page linked above, there were 1,857,304 inductions during Vietnam.  Note that Morris gives the number as 2,215,000 - this may reflect a difference in start and end dates used but they are fairly close.  This would indicate that roughly 7-9% of the draft pool was conscripted.     share | improve this answer     answered Apr 8 '14 at 23:54       Comintern   5,162 1 15 41              add a comment |            Your Answer            draft saved  draft discarded             Sign up or log in    Sign up using Google   Sign up using Facebook   Sign up using Email and Password        Post as a guest       Name     Email             Post as a guest       Name     Email            discard  By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service .     Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged united-states  world-war-two  military  vietnam or ask your own question .         asked    4 years ago      viewed     30,135 times       active    2 months ago       Linked     0   Is this list a complete list of US Jewish servicemen in WWII?      Related   9 Founding Fathers and the American Civil War 44 When and how did the USA and the UK become allies? 1 Who were some famous Vietnam War Hawks and Doves? 2 Non-voluntary deferments in WWII? 2 US Congress in WW2 Compared with other legislative bodies 6 How did Japan successfully conquer Vietnam (Southeast Asia) in WW2? 0 What activity would convey the Burma railway & Hanoi Hilton POW project? 4 Before and during WW2, how were war games played? 8 Who advised FDR on foreign policy before and during WWII? 11 Why did the Eastern U.S. population decrease so much during WWII?      Hot Network Questions     dividing words in equation    Talmud passage relevant to #metoo    Why do they say I am committing a fallacy when I am just insulting someone?    I want to leave Islam, but they would execute and kill me. What do I do?    How to make a Tree diagram using images as vertices, that goes left to right    Why will the BFS reenter broadside rather than engine first?    How does the title 'The Imitation Game' justify the story of the movie?    How to view MTU size in Wireshark?    My prefix ends fast    Why would a god tolerate an impostor in his church?    Why was Fleur's little sister Gabrielle even at Hogwarts?    How can we teach good naming practice for students learning Java?    Why is this shared-neutral wiring bad?    Having trouble getting my friends to get invested in the game    Why didn't Voldemort create a seventh Horcrux not knowing Harry was one?    What should I play on a keyboard to accompany singing?    To switch back to reg oil (from semi-synthetic) do i have to (or should I) flush the engine 1st?    For n nodes that are connected to at most m and at least 2 other nodes, what values of n and m always allow the connections to not intersect?    How many arguments were passed?    Two lasers between two mirrors    Should I prepare new homework exercises each year?    New "professional" branding perceived as "dull"    What's the probable cause for extremely low inbound traffic and high outbound traffic?    Crash during startup on a recent corporate computer    more hot questions     question feed             History   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       History Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled                  NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.  LEARN MORE »           Sections   Home   Search  Skip to content  Skip to navigation  View mobile version      The New York Times       Opinion | What It Was Like to Be Drafted          Search   Subscribe Now  Log In    0  Settings      Close search   Site Search Navigation     Search NYTimes.com     Clear this text input     Go        https://nyti.ms/2tynqEf      Loading...      See next articles       See previous articles           Site Navigation    Site Mobile Navigation       Advertisement               Supported by     Opinion   What It Was Like to Be Drafted            Marc Leepson     VIETNAM '67  JULY 21, 2017       Continue reading the main story  Share This Page   Continue reading the main story              Photo        The author on duty at the 527th Personnel Service Company.     I was drafted into the Army on July 11, 1967, three weeks after my 22nd birthday. Seemingly within minutes after I’d graduated from George Washington University that May, my draft board in Hillside, N.J., changed my status from II-S (student) to I-A (cannon fodder). During the Vietnam War every male of my generation — all 28 million of us — faced the vexing question of what to do about the draft. During my four years as a deferred college student, every guy I knew had countless conversations about it. In my case, politics had little to do with my avoid-or-submit decision. While I felt the war probably was a good thing (to stem the march of worldwide Communism), I knew that I had options to get out of taking part in the escalating fighting halfway across the world. I remember feeling strongly, though, that I didn’t want to do anything drastic that I wouldn’t have done had there not been a draft — such as faking a medical condition or fleeing to Canada. So in the fall of 1966 I made two halfhearted attempts to avoid the uncertainties of the draft: applying to join the Peace Corps and Air Force Officers Candidate School. After being rejected by both, I submitted to conscription, feeling like a leaf in the wind amid the political hurricane engulfing me and my generation. And so I became one of the more than 228,000 men drafted in 1967. Before the draft ended in 1973, a total of some 1.8 million of us had been conscripted.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   On that Tuesday morning in July, 50 years ago, I packed a small bag and my mother drove me to a public bus stop in Elizabeth, where I took the short ride to the military induction center in downtown Newark. After a bunch of physical and psychological tests, I found myself in a small room with a couple of dozen other guys where we solemnly swore we’d support and defend the Constitution against all foreign and domestic enemies, obey the orders of the president and our officers, and abide by the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Then we piled into a bus in the dark and sped down the New Jersey Turnpike to Fort Dix for basic training.  Continue reading the main story         Advertisement   Continue reading the main story       First came a few days of processing: the haircut (you had to pay the civilian barber), the shots (lots of them), the uniforms (“your waist is kinda big,” a snarky corporal who handed me my fatigue pants said), the aptitude tests, the offers to go to Officer Candidate School or get the enlisted school of my choice, both of which involved more time in the Army than the two-year draft commitment. I decided two years in uniform was plenty for me, even though I would have no control over what job the Army choose for me. Then it was off to basic training, where the screaming drill instructors singled out the drafted guys for the harshest verbal abuse. More than a few times they barked: “Leepson, you better learn the spirit of the bayonet. You’re going to Tigerland” — Fort Polk infantry advanced training in the Louisiana swamps — “and then Vietnam, and the Vietcong are going to shoot you dead your first day in country.” Or words to that effect. I distinctly remember thinking that I’d made the biggest mistake of my young life taking my chances with the draft. I survived the eight weeks of basic, shedding 25 pounds in the process. Then came the day in early September when I received orders for advanced training. I marched from our company area to some office building at Dix with a few of my basic buddies. We sat down in a classroom. A clerk handed out our personnel files. He said, “Men, do not open your 201 Files.” Every one of us immediately did, knowing we would find our fate inside the manila folder. It was the first time I’d seen an Army order, complete with a confusing series of coded numbers and mysterious abbreviations. Then I noticed a line underlined in red pencil: my name, rank and service number and the words assigning me for training in MOS 70A-10. The only MOS (military occupational specialty) we knew was 11B, infantryman. I signaled to the clerk. “What’s 70A-10?” I asked him. He replied with these exact words: “Same as me, clerk.” Clerk school. Not Tigerland. I wouldn’t get killed my first day in Vietnam. A get out of jail free card. I’ve never felt anything like the shock and euphoria of that moment in the half-century that has whizzed by since that moment.  Newsletter Sign Up  Continue reading the main story  Subscribe to the Vietnam ’67 Newsletter  This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.     Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.  Invalid email address. Please re-enter.  You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.     Sign Up         You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.       Thank you for subscribing.  An error has occurred. Please try again later.  You are already subscribed to this email.  View all New York Times newsletters.    Manage Email Preferences  Not you?  Privacy Policy  Opt out or contact us anytime      The next day the Army shipped me to Fort Leonard Wood in the Missouri Ozarks, a.k.a. “Fort Lost in the Woods” and “Little Korea.” Most of the other guys in my training company had joined in order to get clerk school. About a dozen of us had been drafted and won the clerk school lottery. Four of the guys had just graduated from Southern Illinois University and had had basic at Leonard Wood together. They welcomed me into their college-guy clique.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   We laughed our way through the eight weeks of training, calling the barracks “the dorm,” the base “the campus” and the mess hall “the cafeteria.” When clerk school ended on Nov. 14, 1967, every one of us received orders for Vietnam. What I remember most during my 30-day leave is how awkwardly uncomfortable my college friends were when they realized I was heading for the war zone. The most common refrain was an embarrassed, “Well, at least you’ll get to see the Bob Hope Christmas show.” I didn’t. My parents dropped me at Newark Airport when my leave was up for a commercial flight to San Francisco, where I was to report to the Oakland Army Base, the giant out-processing center for troops going to Vietnam. I have no memory of that flight or the night I spent in a hotel room in San Francisco or how I got to Oakland. I must have taken a taxi. But I vividly remember the very long day I spent out-processing. I met up with my buddy Vito Lanza, and a couple hundred of us went through out-processing, then spent the night on cots in a giant room; it felt like a soulless airplane hangar with buzzing fluorescent lights. Early the next morning, Dec. 14, 1967, we piled into buses for the ride to nearby Travis Air Force Base, then boarded leased commercial jets (with flight attendants and airline food — but no booze) for the trip to the war zone. First stop: Anchorage. We deplaned for a few hours. I remember it was warmer in Alaska than it had been in San Francisco. Then something like an 18-hour flight crossing the International Date Line over the Pacific Ocean to Tachikawa Air Base in Japan for a short layover. Then on to Vietnam. After deplaning at Bien Hoa Air Base, near Saigon, we were herded onto buses for the drive to the giant 90th Replacement Battalion not far away at Long Binh, where we would be assigned to our units. My only memory of the bus ride was that it was oppressively hot and humid, and that Vietnam smelled like raw sewage. Vito got his assignment (to Long Binh) right away, but I spent four long days at the 90th at Long Binh Post, rumored to be the largest American Army base on the planet. We were put in rudimentary barracks, then marched to a few orientation sessions. “Men, you may have heard that most of the prostitutes in Vietnam have some kind of venereal disease,” the guy giving the V.D. lecture said. “That’s not true — they all do.” I believe he recommended a body condom — but that may be a false memory. We also filled sandbags and did guard duty (without weapons). Mostly, though, we had to endure three shipping formations each day held on a giant parade ground, listening for our names to be called on a muddy loudspeaker by a guy on a high wooden platform. He began with words I can still hear: “The following individuals are assigned to ...,” and then he’d call out a place name or a unit.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   We lined up single file by flight. As names were called, the lines shrunk. After enduring four days of shipping formations, the line of my flight was down to me and four or five other guys. Then I heard my name over the loudspeaker. I would be going to a place I’d never heard of, Qui Nhon (we pronounced it Quin-YON), with a handful of other newbies.   We did a hurry-up-and-wait, sitting with our duffel bags alongside an Army truck at Long Binh, before the short ride back to Bien Hoa. Just as we were about to march up the back loading ramp of a C-130 Hercules, a small Army truck pulled up and drove in, along with about two dozen South Vietnamese Army troops. Then we clambered on board. All the seats (plastic webbed ones fastened to the sides of the plane) were taken, so I flew to Qui Nhon sitting on a truck fender in the belly of a C-130. It seemed perfectly normal. Five months after being drafted, on Dec. 19, 1967, I reported for duty at the 527th Personnel Service Company. I worked in the personnel management section as a redeployment clerk. For the next 12 months I sent people home from the war.   Marc Leepson is the author of nine books, most recently “Ballad of the Green Beret: The Life and Wars of Staff Sergeant Barry Sadler.” He edited Webster’s New World Dictionary of the Vietnam War and is the arts editor and a senior writer and columnist for The VVA Veteran, the magazine of the Vietnam Veterans of America.  Subscribe to the Vietnam &apos;67 newsletter .  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter .    Continue reading the main story        We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.                                     Vietnam '67  Historians, veterans and journalists recall 1967 in Vietnam, a year that changed the war and changed America.          The End of South Vietnam  MAR 30         Was the Vietnam War Necessary?  MAR 29         How Vietnam Broke the Democratic Party  MAR 28         My Vietnam War  MAR 27         Why Were the Russians in Vietnam?  MAR 27        See More »         What's Next    Loading...               Go to Home Page »   Site Index   The New York Times       Site Index Navigation    News    World    U.S.    Politics    N.Y.    Business    Tech    Science    Health    Sports    Education    Obituaries    Today's Paper    Corrections      Opinion    Today's Opinion    Op-Ed Columnists    Editorials    Op-Ed Contributors    Letters    Sunday Review    Video: Opinion      Arts    Today's Arts    Art & Design    Books    Dance    Movies    Music    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Television    Theater    Video: Arts      Living    Automobiles    Crossword    Food    Education    Fashion & Style    Health    Jobs    Magazine    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Real Estate    T Magazine    Travel    Weddings & Celebrations      Listings & More    Reader Center    Classifieds    Tools & Services    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Multimedia    Photography    Video    NYT Store    Times Journeys    Subscribe    Manage My Account    NYTCo      Subscribe   Subscribe    Home Delivery     Digital Subscriptions     Crossword      Email Newsletters    Alerts    Gift Subscriptions    Group Subscriptions    Education Rate      Mobile Applications    Replica Edition          Site Information Navigation    © 2018 The New York Times Company    Home  Search  Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com . We would love to hear from you.  Contact Us  Work With Us  Advertise  Your Ad Choices  Privacy  Terms of Service  Terms of Sale     Site Information Navigation   Site Map  Help  Site Feedback  Subscriptions                              Conscription in the United States   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Jump to: navigation , search      Young men registering for conscription during World War I in New York City , New York , on June 5, 1917.      Conscription     Military service  National service  Conscription crisis  Conscientious objector  Alternative civilian service    Conscription by country       v  t  e       Conscription in the United States , commonly known as the draft , has been employed by the federal government of the United States in five conflicts: the American Revolution , the American Civil War , World War I , World War II , and the Cold War (including both the Korean War and the Vietnam War ). The third incarnation of the draft came into being in 1940 through the Selective Training and Service Act . It was the country's first peacetime draft. [1] From 1940 until 1973, during both peacetime and periods of conflict, men were drafted to fill vacancies in the United States Armed Forces that could not be filled through voluntary means. The draft came to an end when the United States Armed Forces moved to an all-volunteer military force . However, the Selective Service System remains in place as a contingency plan ; all male civilians between the ages of 18 and 25 are required to register so that a draft can be readily resumed if needed. [2] United States Federal Law also provides for the compulsory conscription of men between the ages of 17 and 45 and certain women for militia service pursuant to Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution and 10 U.S. Code § 246. [3] [4] [5]     Contents    1  History   1.1  Colonial to 1862  1.2  Civil War  1.3  World War I   1.3.1  Opposition  1.3.2  Conscientious objectors    1.4  Interwar  1.5  World War II   1.5.1  Opposition  1.5.2  Conscientious objectors    1.6  Cold War  1.7  Vietnam War  1.8  End of conscription  1.9  Post-1980 draft registration    2  Health care personnel  3  Legality  4  Conscientious objection  5  Poverty Draft  6  Selective Service reforms  7  Conscription controversies since 2003  8  Non-citizens  9  See also  10  Footnotes  11  References and further reading   11.1  American Revolution  11.2  Civil War  11.3  World War I  11.4  World War II  11.5  Cold War and Vietnam  11.6  Recent    12  External links     History [ edit ]  See also: Conscientious objection in the United States § History  Colonial to 1862 [ edit ]  In colonial times , the Thirteen Colonies used a militia system for defense. Colonial militia laws—and after independence those of the United States and the various states—required able-bodied males to enroll in the militia, to undergo a minimum of military training, and to serve for limited periods of time in war or emergency. This earliest form of conscription involved selective drafts of militiamen for service in particular campaigns. Following this system in its essentials, the Continental Congress in 1778 recommended that the states draft men from their militias for one year's service in the Continental army; this first national conscription was irregularly applied and failed to fill the Continental ranks.  For long-term operations, conscription was occasionally used when volunteers or paid substitutes were insufficient to raise the needed manpower. During the American Revolutionary War , the states sometimes drafted men for militia duty or to fill state Continental Army units, but the central government did not have the authority to conscript except for purposes of naval impressment . President James Madison and his Secretary of War James Monroe unsuccessfully attempted to create a national draft of 40,000 men during the War of 1812 . [6] This proposal was fiercely criticized on the House floor by antiwar Congressman Daniel Webster of New Hampshire. [7]    The administration asserts the right to fill the ranks of the regular army by compulsion...Is this, sir, consistent with the character of a free government? Is this civil liberty? Is this the real character of our Constitution ? No, sir, indeed it is not...Where is it written in the Constitution, in what article or section is it contained, that you may take children from their parents, and parents from their children, and compel them to fight the battles of any war, in which the folly or the wickedness of government may engage it? Under what concealment has this power lain hidden, which now for the first time comes forth, with a tremendous and baleful aspect, to trample down and destroy the dearest rights of personal liberty?    Daniel Webster ( December 9, 1814 House of Representatives Address )    Civil War [ edit ]  Main articles: Union (American Civil War) and Confederate States of America  The United States first employed national conscription during the American Civil War . The vast majority of troops were volunteers; of the 2,100,000 Union soldiers, about 2% were draftees, and another 6% were substitutes paid by draftees. [8] [9]  The Confederacy had far fewer inhabitants than the Union , and Confederate President Jefferson Davis proposed the first conscription act on March 28, 1862; it was passed into law the next month. [10] Resistance was both widespread and violent, with comparisons made between conscription and slavery.     Rioters attacking a building during the New York anti-draft riots of 1863    Both sides permitted conscripts to hire substitutes to serve in their place. In the Union, many states and cities offered bounties and bonuses for enlistment. They also arranged to take credit against their draft quota by claiming freed slaves who enlisted in the Union Army.  Although both sides resorted to conscription, the system did not work effectively in either. [11] The Confederate Congress on April 16, 1862, passed an act requiring military service for three years from all males aged eighteen to thirty-five not legally exempt; it later extended the obligation. The U.S. Congress followed with the Militia Act of 1862 authorizing a militia draft within a state when it could not meet its quota with volunteers. [ citation needed ] This state-administered system failed in practice and in 1863 Congress passed the Enrollment Act , the first genuine national conscription law, setting up under the Union Army an elaborate machinery for enrolling and drafting men between twenty and forty-five years of age. Quotas were assigned in each state, the deficiencies in volunteers required to be met by conscription.  Still, men drafted could provide substitutes, and until mid-1864 could even avoid service by paying commutation money. Many eligible men pooled their money to cover the cost of any one of them drafted. Families used the substitute provision to select which member should go into the army and which would stay home. The other popular means of procuring a substitute was to pay a soldier whose period of enlistment was about to expire - the advantage of this method was that the Army could retain a trained veteran in place of a raw recruit. Of the 168,649 men procured for the Union Army through the draft, 117,986 were substitutes, leaving only 50,663 who had their personal services conscripted. There was much evasion and overt resistance to the draft, and the New York City draft riots were in direct response to the draft and were the first large-scale resistance against the draft in the United States.  The problem of Confederate desertion was aggravated by the inequitable inclinations of conscription officers and local judges. The three conscription acts of the Confederacy exempted certain categories, most notably the planter class , and enrolling officers and local judges often practiced favoritism, sometimes accepting bribes. Attempts to effectively deal with the issue were frustrated by conflict between state and local governments on the one hand and the national government of the Confederacy. [12]  World War I [ edit ]     A World War I era draft card.    In 1917 the administration of President  Woodrow Wilson decided to rely primarily on conscription, rather than voluntary enlistment, to raise military manpower for World War I when only 73,000 volunteers enlisted out of the initial 1 million target in the first six weeks of the war. [13] One claimed motivation was to head off the former President, Theodore Roosevelt , who proposed to raise a volunteer division, which would upstage Wilson; however, there is no evidence that even Roosevelt had the popularity to overcome the unpopular war, and also, since Wilson had just started his second term in office the former President's prospects for substantial political gain would seem dubious.  The Selective Service Act of 1917 was carefully drawn to remedy the defects in the Civil War system and—by allowing exemptions for dependency, essential occupations, and religious scruples—to place each man in his proper niche in a national war effort. The act established a "liability for military service of all male citizens"; authorized a selective draft of all those between 21 and 31 years of age (later from 18 to 45); and prohibited all forms of bounties, substitutions, or purchase of exemptions. Administration was entrusted to local boards composed of leading civilians in each community. These boards issued draft calls in order of numbers drawn in a national lottery and determined exemptions.  In 1917, 10 million men were registered. This was deemed to be inadequate, so age ranges were increased and exemptions reduced, and so by the end of 1918 this increased to 24 million men that were registered with nearly 3 million inducted into the military services, with little of the resistance that characterized the Civil War, thanks to a huge campaign by the government to build support for the war, and shut down newspapers and magazines that published articles against the war. [14] [15]     Secretary of War Newton Baker draws the first draft number on July 20, 1917.    The draft was universal and included blacks on the same terms as whites, although they served in different units. In all 367,710 black Americans were drafted (13.0% of the total), compared to 2,442,586 white (86.9%). Along with a general opposition to American involvement in a foreign conflict, Southern farmers objected to unfair conscription practices that exempted members of the upper class and industrial workers.  Draft boards were localized and based their decisions on social class: the poorest were the most often conscripted because they were considered the most expendable at home. African-Americans in particular were often disproportionately drafted, though they generally were conscripted as laborers and not sent into combat to avoid the tensions that would arise from mixing races in military units. Forms of resistance ranged from peaceful protest to violent demonstrations and from humble letter-writing campaigns asking for mercy to radical newspapers demanding reform. The most common tactics were dodging and desertion, and many communities sheltered and defended their draft dodgers as political heroes.  Nearly half a million immigrants were drafted, which forced the military to develop training procedures that took ethnic differences into account. Military leaders invited Progressive reformers and ethnic group leaders to assist in formulating new military policies. The military attempted to socialize and Americanize young immigrant recruits, not by forcing "angloconformity", but by showing remarkable sensitivity and respect for ethnic values and traditions and a concern for the morale of immigrant troops. Sports activities, keeping immigrant groups together, newspapers in various languages, the assistance of bilingual officers, and ethnic entertainment programs were all employed. [16]  Opposition [ edit ]      Blessed are the Peacemakers by George Bellows , The Masses , 1917    The Conscription Act of 1917 was passed in June. Conscripts were court-martialed by the Army if they refused to wear uniforms, bear arms, perform basic duties, or submit to military authority. Convicted objectors were often given long sentences of 20 years in Fort Leavenworth . [17] In 1918 Secretary Baker created the Board of Inquiry to question the conscientious objectors' sincerity. [18]  Military tribunals tried men found by the Board to be insincere for a variety of offenses, sentencing 17 to death , 142 to life imprisonment , and 345 to penal labor camps. [18]  In 1917, a number of radicals and anarchists , including Emma Goldman , challenged the new draft law in federal court, arguing that it was a direct violation of the Thirteenth Amendment's prohibition against slavery and involuntary servitude. The Supreme Court unanimously upheld the constitutionality of the draft act in the Selective Draft Law Cases on January 7, 1918. The decision said the Constitution gave Congress the power to declare war and to raise and support armies. The Court, relying partly on Vattel 's The Law of Nations , emphasized the principle of the reciprocal rights and duties of citizens: [19]   It may not be doubted that the very conception of a just government and its duty to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation of the citizen to render military service in case of need, and the right to compel it. To do more than state the proposition is absolutely unnecessary in view of the practical illustration afforded by the almost universal legislation to that effect now in force.   Conscription was unpopular from left-wing sectors at the start, with many Socialists jailed for "obstructing the recruitment or enlistment service". The most famous was Eugene Debs , head of the Socialist Party of America , who ran for president in 1920 from his Atlanta prison cell. He had his sentence commuted to time served and was released on December 25, 1921, by President Warren G. Harding .  The Industrial Workers of the World mobilized to obstruct the war effort through strikes in war-related industries and not registering.  Conscientious objectors [ edit ]  Conscientious objector (CO) exemptions were allowed for the Amish , Mennonites , Quakers , and Church of the Brethren only. All other religious and political objectors were forced to participate. Some 64,700 men claimed conscientious objector status; local draft boards certified 57,000, of whom 30,000 passed the physical and 21,000 were inducted into the U.S. Army. About 80% of the 21,000 decided to abandon their objection and take up arms, but 3,989 drafted objectors refused to serve. Most belonged to historically pacifist denominations, especially Quakers, Mennonites, and Moravian Brethren , as well as a few Seventh-day Adventists and Jehovah's Witnesses . About 15% were religious objectors from non-pacifist churches. [20]  Ben Salmon was a nationally known political activist who encouraged men not to register and personally refused to comply with the draft procedures. He rejected the Army Review Board proposal that he do noncombatant farm work. Sentenced to 25 years in prison, he again refused a proposed desk job. He was pardoned and released in November 1920 with a "dishonorable discharge". [21]  Interwar [ edit ]  The draft ended in 1918 but the Army designed the modern draft mechanism in 1926 and built it based on military needs despite an era of pacifism . Working where Congress would not, it gathered a cadre of officers for its nascent Joint Army-Navy Selective Service Committee, most of whom were commissioned based on social standing rather than military experience. [22] This effort did not receive congressionally approved funding until 1934 when Major General Lewis B. Hershey was assigned to the organization. The passage of a conscription act was opposed by some, including Dorothy Day and George Barry O'Toole , who were concerned that such conscription would not provide adequate protection for the rights of conscientious objectors . However, much of Hershey's work was codified into law with the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 (STSA). [23]  World War II [ edit ]  By the summer of 1940, as Germany conquered France , Americans became more affable to the return of conscription. One national survey found that 67% of respondents believed that a German - Italian victory would endanger the United States, and that 71% supported "the immediate adoption of compulsory military training for all young men". [24] Similarly, a November 1942 survey of American high-school students found that 69% favored compulsory postwar military training. [25]  The World War I system served as a model for that of World War II. The 1940 instituted conscription in peacetime, requiring the registration of all men between 21 and 35, with selection for one year's service by a national lottery. President Roosevelt's signing of the Selective Training and Service Act on September 16, 1940, began the first peacetime draft in the United States. It also reestablished the Selective Service System as an independent agency responsible for identifying young men and facilitating their military service. Roosevelt named Lewis B. Hershey to head the System on July 31, 1941, where he remained until 1969. [23] This act came when other preparations, such as increased training and equipment production, had not yet been approved. Nevertheless, it served as the basis for the conscription programs that would continue to the present.  The act set a cap of 900,000 men to be in training at any given time, and limited military service to 12 months unless Congress deemed it necessary to extend such service in the interest of national defense. An amendment added 18 more months to this service period on August 18, 1941. After Pearl Harbor the STSA was further amended (December 19, 1941), extending the term of service to the duration of the war plus six months and requiring the registration of all men 18 to 64 years of age. During World War II, 49 million men were registered, 36 million classified [ not in citation given ] , and 10 million inducted. [26] 18 and 19 year olds were made liable for induction on November 13, 1942. By late 1942, the Selective Service System moved away from a national lottery to administrative selection by its more than 6,000 local boards .  On December 5, 1942, presidential Executive Order 9279 made it so that all men from the ages of 18 to 37 could not voluntarily enlist for the duration of the war, providing protection for the nation's home front manpower pool. The Navy and Marine Corps began procuring their personnel through the Selective Service System in early 1943. The Navy and Marine Corps enlisted inductees and volunteers under the same service agreements, but with different service obligations, while the Army placed wartime inductees and volunteers into a special service component known as the Army of the United States , commonly known as the "AUS;" service commitments were set at the length of the war plus six months. [27] [28]  Paul V. McNutt , head of the War Manpower Commission , estimated that the changes would increase the ratio of men drafted from one out of nine to one out of five. The commission's goal was to have nine million men in the armed forces by the end of 1943. [29] This facilitated the massive requirement of up to 200,000 men per month and would remain the standard for the length of the war.  The World War II draft operated from 1940 until 1946 when further inductions were suspended, and its legislative authorization expired without further extension by Congress in 1947. During this time, more than 10 million men had been inducted into military service. [30] However, the Selective Service System remained intact.  Opposition [ edit ]  Scattered opposition was encountered especially in the northern cities where African-Americans protested the system. The young Nation of Islam was at the forefront, with many Black Muslims jailed for refusing the draft, and their leader Elijah Muhammed was sentenced to federal prison for 5 years for inciting draft resistance. Organized draft resistance also developed in the Japanese American internment camps , where groups like the Heart Mountain Fair Play Committee refused to serve unless they and their families were released. 300 Nisei men from eight of the ten War Relocation Authority camps were arrested and stood trial for felony draft evasion ; most were sentenced to federal prison. [31] American Communists also opposed the war until Germany attacked the Soviet Union in June 1941, whereupon they became supporters. [32]  Conscientious objectors [ edit ]  Of the more than 72,000 men registering as conscientious objectors (CO), nearly 52,000 received CO status. Of these, over 25,000 entered the military in noncombatant roles, another 12,000 went to civilian work camps, and nearly 6,000 went to prison. Draft evasion only accounted for about 4% of the total inducted. About 373,000 alleged evaders were investigated with just over 16,000 being imprisoned. [33]  Cold War [ edit ]  The second peacetime draft began with passage of the Selective Service Act of 1948 after the STSA expired. The new law required all men, ages 18 to 26, to register. It also created the system for the "Doctor Draft" aimed at inducting health professionals into military service. [34] Unless otherwise exempted or deferred (see Berry Plan ), these men could be called for up to 21 months of active duty and five years of reserve duty service. Congress further tweaked this act in 1950 although the post–World War II surplus of military manpower left little need for draft calls until Truman's declaration of national emergency in December 1950. [35] Only 20,348 men were inducted in 1948 and only 9,781 in 1949.  Between the Korean War 's outbreak in June 1950 and the armistice agreement in 1953, Selective Service inducted over 1.5 million men. [30] Another 1.3 million volunteered, usually choosing the Navy or Air Force. [22] [33] Congress passed the Universal Military Training and Service Act in 1951 to meet the demands of the war. It lowered the induction age to 18½ and extended active-duty service commitments to 24 months. Despite the early combat failures and later stalemate in Korea, the draft has been credited by some as playing a vital role in turning the tide of war. [22] A February 1953 Gallup Poll showed 70 percent of Americans surveyed felt the SSS handled the draft fairly. Notably, Gallup reported that 64 percent of the demographic group including all draft age men (males 21 to 29) believed the draft to be fair. [36]  To increase equity in the system, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed an executive order on July 11, 1953, that ended the paternity deferment for married men. [37] In large part, the change in the draft served the purposes of the burgeoning Cold War. From a program that had just barely passed congressional muster during the fearful prelude to World War II, a more robust draft continued as fears now focused on the Soviet threat. Nevertheless, some dissenting voices in Congress continued to appeal to the history of voluntary American military service as preferable for a democracy. [38] [39] The Korean War was the first time any form of student deferment was used. During the Korean War a student carrying at least twelve semester hours was spared until the end of his current semester. [40]  The United States breathed easier with the Korean War Armistice on July 27, 1953; however, technology brought new promises and threats. U.S. air and nuclear power fueled the Eisenhower doctrine of "massive retaliation". This strategy demanded more machines and fewer foot soldiers, so the draft slipped to the back burner. However, the head of the SSS, Maj. Gen. Hershey, urged caution fearing the conflict looming in Vietnam. In May 1953, he told his state directors to do everything possible to keep SSS alive in order to meet upcoming needs. [41]  Following the 1953 Korean War Armistice, Congress passed the Reserve Forces Act of 1955 with the aim of improving National Guard and federal Reserve Component readiness while also constraining its use by the president. Towards this end, it mandated a six-year service commitment, in a combination of reserve and active duty time, for every line military member regardless of their means of entry. Meanwhile, the SSS kept itself alive by devising and managing a complex system of deferments for a swelling pool of candidates during a period of shrinking requirements. The greatest challenge to the draft came not from protesters but rather lobbyists seeking additional deferments for their constituency groups such as scientists and farmers. [23]  Government leaders felt the potential for a draft was a critical element in maintaining a constant flow of volunteers. On numerous occasions Gen. Hershey told Congress for every man drafted, three or four more were scared into volunteering. [42] Assuming his assessment was accurate, this would mean over 11 million men volunteered for service because of the draft between January 1954 and April 1975. [22]  The policy of using the draft as a club to force "voluntary" enlistment was unique in U.S. history. Previous drafts had not aimed at encouraging individuals to sign up in order to gain preferential placement or less dangerous postings. However, the incremental buildup of Vietnam without a clear threat to the country bolstered this. [22] Some estimates suggest conscription encompassed almost one-third of all eligible men during the period of 1965–69. [43] [44] This group represented those without exemption or resources to avoid military service. During the active combat phase, the possibility of avoiding combat by selecting their service and military specialty led as many as four out of 11 eligible men to enlist. [45] [46] The military relied upon this draft-induced volunteerism to make its quotas, especially the Army, which accounted for nearly 95 percent of all inductees during Vietnam. For example, defense recruiting reports show 34% of the recruits in 1964 up to 50% in 1970 indicated they joined to avoid placement uncertainty via the draft. [47] [48] [49] These rates dwindled to 24% in 1972 and 15% in 1973 after the change to a lottery system. Accounting for other factors, it can be argued up to 60 percent of those who served throughout the Vietnam War did so directly or indirectly because of the draft. [45]  In addition, deferments provided an incentive for men to follow pursuits considered useful to the state. This process, known as channeling, helped push men into educational, occupational, and family choices they might not otherwise have pursued. Undergraduate degrees were valued. Graduate work had varying value over time, though technical and religious training received near constant support. War industry support in the form of teaching, research, or skilled labor also received deferred or exempt status. Finally, marriage and family were exempted because of its positive social consequences. [23] [50] This included using presidential orders to extend exemptions again to fathers and others. [51] Channeling was also seen as a means of preempting the early loss of the country's "best and brightest" who had historically joined and died early in war. [52]  In the only extended period of military conscription of U.S. males during a major peacetime period, the draft continued on a more limited basis during the late 1950s and early 1960s. While a far smaller percentage of eligible males were conscripted compared to war periods, draftees by law served in the Army for two years. Elvis Presley and Willie Mays were two of the most famous people drafted during this period.  Public protests in the United States were few during the Korean War. However, the percentage of CO exemptions for inductees grew to 1.5% compared to a rate of just 0.5% in the past two wars. The Justice Department also investigated more than 80,000 draft evasion cases. [44] [53] [54]  Vietnam War [ edit ]  President Kennedy's decision to send military troops to Vietnam as "advisors" was a signal that Selective Service Director Lewis B. Hershey needed to visit the Oval Office. From that visit emerged two wishes of JFK with regard to conscription. The first was that the names of married men with children should occupy the very bottom of the callup list. Just above them should be the names of men who are married. This Presidential policy, however, was not to be formally encoded into Selective Service Status. Men who fit into these categories became known as Kennedy Husbands. When President Lyndon Johnson decided to rescind this Kennedy policy, there was a last-minute rush to the altar by thousands of American couples. [ citation needed ]  Many early rank-and-file anti-conscription protesters had been allied with the National Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy. The completion in 1963 of a Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty left a mass of undirected youth in search of a cause. [ citation needed ] Syndicated cartoonist Al Capp portrayed them as S.W.I.N.E, (Students Wildly Indignant About Nearly Everything). The catalyst for protest reconnection was the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin Resolution .  Consequently, there was some opposition to the draft even before the major U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War began. The large cohort of Baby Boomers who became eligible for military service during the Vietnam War was responsible for a steep increase in the number of exemptions and deferments, especially for college students. Besides being able to avoid the draft, college graduates who volunteered for military service (primarily as commissioned officers ) had a much better chance of securing a preferential posting compared to less-educated inductees.     President Gerald Ford announces amnesty for draft evaders at the White House, Washington, D.C., in 1974.    As U.S. troop strength in South Vietnam increased, more young men were drafted for service there, and many of those still at home sought means of avoiding the draft. Since only 15,000 National Guard and Reserve soldiers were sent to South Vietnam, enlistment in the Guard or the Reserves became a popular means of avoiding serving in a war zone. For those who could meet the more stringent enlistment standards, service in the Air Force, Navy, or Coast Guard was a means of reducing the chances of being killed. Vocations to the ministry and the rabbinate soared, because divinity students were exempt from the draft [ citation needed ] . Doctors and draft board members found themselves being pressured by relatives or family friends to exempt potential draftees. [ citation needed ]  The marriage deferment ended suddenly on August 26, 1965. Around 3:10pm President Johnson signed an order allowing the draft of men who married after midnight that day, then around 5pm he announced the change for the first time. [55]  Some conscientious objectors objected to the war based on the theory of Just War . One of these, Stephen Spiro , was convicted of avoiding the draft, but given a suspended sentence of five years. He was later pardoned by President Gerald Ford . [56]  There were 8,744,000 servicemembers between 1964 and 1975, of whom 3,403,000 were deployed to Southeast Asia. [57] From a pool of approximately 27 million, the draft raised 2,215,000 men for military service (in the United States, South Vietnam, and elsewhere) during the Vietnam War era. The majority of servicemembers deployed to South Vietnam were volunteers, even though hundreds of thousands of men opted to join the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Coast Guard (for three or four year terms of enlistment) rather than risk being drafted, serve for two years, and have no choice over their military occupational specialty (MOS). [58]  Of the nearly 16 million men not engaged in active military service, 57% were exempted (typically because of jobs including other military service), deferred (usually for educational reasons), or disqualified (usually for physical and mental deficiencies but also for criminal records including draft violations). [22] The requirements for obtaining and maintaining an educational deferment changed several times in the late 1960s. For several years, students were required to take an annual qualification test. In 1967 educational deferments were changed for graduate students. Those starting graduate studies in the fall of 1967 were given two semester deferments becoming eligible in June 1968. Those further along in their graduate study who entered prior to the summer of 1967 could continue to receive a deferment until they completed their studies. Peace Corps Volunteers were no longer given deferments and their induction was left to the discretion of their local boards. However most boards allowed Peace Corps Volunteers to complete their two years assignment before inducting them into the service. On December 1, 1969, a lottery was held to establish a draft priority for all those born between 1944 and 1950. Those with a high number no longer had to be concerned about the draft. Nearly 500,000 men were disqualified for criminal records, but less than 10,000 of them were convicted of draft violations. [33] Finally, as many as 100,000 draft eligible men fled the country. [59] [60]  End of conscription [ edit ]     Jeffrey Mellinger in 1972; Mellinger was the last drafted U.S. NCO to remain in the army before retiring in 2011.       Jeffrey Mellinger in 2005    During the 1968 presidential election , Richard Nixon campaigned on a promise to end the draft. [61] He had first become interested in the idea of an all-volunteer army during his time out of office, based upon a paper by Martin Anderson of Columbia University . [62] Nixon also saw ending the draft as an effective way to undermine the anti-Vietnam war movement, since he believed affluent youths would stop protesting the war once their own probability of having to fight in it was gone. [63] There was opposition to the all-volunteer notion from both the Department of Defense and Congress, so Nixon took no immediate action towards ending the draft early in his presidency. [62]  Instead, the Gates Commission was formed, headed by Thomas S. Gates, Jr. , a former Secretary of Defense in the Eisenhower administration . Gates initially opposed the all-volunteer army idea, but changed his mind during the course of the 15-member commission's work. [62] The Gates Commission issued its report in February 1970, describing how adequate military strength could be maintained without having conscription. [61] [64] The existing draft law was expiring at the end of June 1971, but the Department of Defense and Nixon administration decided the draft needed to continue for at least some time. [64] In February 1971, the administration requested of Congress a two-year extension of the draft, to June 1973. [65] [66]  Senatorial opponents of the war wanted to reduce this to a one-year extension, or eliminate the draft altogether, or tie the draft renewal to a timetable for troop withdrawal from Vietnam; [67] Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska took the most forceful approach, trying to filibuster the draft renewal legislation, shut down conscription, and directly force an end to the war. [68] Senators supporting Nixon's war efforts supported the bill, even though some had qualms about ending the draft. [66] After a prolonged battle in the Senate, in September 1971 cloture was achieved over the filibuster and the draft renewal bill was approved. [69] Meanwhile, military pay was increased as an incentive to attract volunteers, and television advertising for the U.S. Army began. [61] With the end of active U.S. ground participation in Vietnam, December 1972 saw the last men conscripted, who were born in 1952 [70] and who reported for duty in June 1973. On February 2, 1972, a drawing was held to determine draft priority numbers for men born in 1953, but in early 1973 it was announced by Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird that no further draft orders would be issued. [71] [72] In March 1973, 1974, and 1975, the Selective Service assigned draft priority numbers for all men born in 1954, 1955, and 1956, in case the draft was extended, but it never was. [73]  Command Sergeant Major Jeff Mellinger, believed to be the last drafted enlisted ranked soldier still on active duty, retired in 2011. [74] [75]  Chief Warrant Officer 5 Ralph E. Rigby, the last Vietnam War-era drafted soldier of Warrant Officer rank, retired from the army on November 10, 2014 after a 42-year career. [76]  Post-1980 draft registration [ edit ]  On July 2, 1980, President Jimmy Carter issued Presidential Proclamation 4771 and re-instated the requirement that young men register with the Selective Service System . [77] At that time it was required that all males, born on or after January 1, 1960, register with the Selective Service System. Those now in this category are male U.S. citizens and male immigrant non-citizens between the ages of 18 and 25, who are required to register within 30 days of their 18th birthday even if they are not eligible to join the military.  The Selective Service System describes its mission as "to serve the emergency manpower needs of the Military by conscripting untrained manpower, or personnel with professional health care skills, if directed by Congress and the President in a national crisis". [78] Registration forms are available either online or at any U.S. Post Office .  The Selective Service registration form states that failure to register is a felony punishable by up to five years imprisonment or a $250,000 fine. [79] In practice, no one has been prosecuted for failure to comply with draft registration since 1986, [80] in part because prosecutions of draft resisters proved counter-productive for the government, and in part because of the difficulty of proving that noncompliance with the law was "knowing and wilful". In interviews published in U.S. News & World Report in May 2016, current and former Selective Service System officials said that in 1988, the Department of Justice and Selective Service agreed to suspend any further prosecutions of nonregistrants. [81] Many men do not register at all, register late, or change addresses without notifying the Selective Service System. [82] Registration is a requirement for employment by the federal government and some states, as well as for receiving some state benefits such as driver's licenses. [83] Refusing to register can also cause a loss of eligibility for federal financial aid for college . [84]  Health care personnel [ edit ]  On December 1, 1989, Congress ordered the Selective Service System to put in place a system capable of drafting "persons qualified for practice or employment in a health care and professional occupation", if such a special-skills draft should be ordered by Congress. [85] In response, Selective Service published plans for the "Health Care Personnel Delivery System" (HCPDS) in 1989 and has had them ready ever since. The concept underwent a preliminary field exercise in Fiscal Year 1998, followed by a more extensive nationwide readiness exercise in Fiscal Year 1999. The HCPDS plans include women and men ages 20–54 in 57 different job categories. [86] As of May 2003, the Defense Department has said the most likely form of draft is a special skills draft, probably of health care workers. [87]  Legality [ edit ]  In 1918, the Supreme Court ruled that the World War I draft did not violate the United States Constitution in the Selective Draft Law Cases . The Court summarized the history of conscription in England and in colonial America, a history that it read as establishing that the Framers envisioned compulsory military service as a governmental power. It held that the Constitution's grant to Congress of the powers to declare war and to create standing armies included the power to mandate conscription. It rejected arguments based on states' rights, the 13th Amendment , and other provisions of the Constitution.  Later, during the Vietnam War, a lower appellate court also concluded that the draft was constitutional. United States v. Holmes , 387 F.2d 781 (7th Cir.), cert. denied , 391 U.S. 936 (1968). [88] Justice William O. Douglas , in voting to hear the appeal in Holmes , agreed that the government had the authority to employ conscription in wartime, but argued that the constitutionality of a draft in the absence of a declaration of war was an open question, which the Supreme Court should address.  During the World War I era, the Supreme Court allowed the government great latitude in suppressing criticism of the draft. Examples include Schenck v. United States , 249 U.S. 47 (1919) [89] and Gilbert v. Minnesota , 254 U.S. 325 (1920). [90] In subsequent decades, however, the Court has taken a much broader view of the extent to which advocacy speech is protected by the First Amendment . Thus, in 1971 the Court held it unconstitutional for a state to punish a man who entered a county courthouse wearing a jacket with the words "Fuck the Draft" visible on it. Cohen v. California , 403 U.S. 15 (1971). [91] Nevertheless, protesting the draft by the specific means of burning a draft registration card can be constitutionally prohibited, because of the government's interest in prohibiting the "nonspeech" element involved in destroying the card. United States v. O'Brien , 391 U.S. 367 (1968). [92]  Since the reinstatement of draft registration in 1980, the Supreme Court has heard and decided four cases related to the Military Selective Service Act: Rostker v. Goldberg, 453 U.S. 57 (1981), upholding the Constitutionality of requiring men but not women to register for the draft; Selective Service v. Minnesota Public Interest Research Group (MPIRG), 468 U.S. 841 (1984), upholding the Constitutionality of the first of the federal " Solomon Amendment " laws, which requires applicants for Federal student aid to certify that they have complied with draft registration, either by having registered or by not being required to register; Wayte v. United States, 470 U.S. 598 (1985), upholding the policies and procedures which the Supreme Court thought the government had used to select the "most vocal" nonregistrants for prosecution, after the government refused to comply with discovery orders by the trial court to produce documents and witnesses related to the selection of nonregistrants for prosecution; and Elgin v. Department of the Treasury, 567 U.S. ____ (2012) , regarding procedures for judicial review of denial of Federal employment for nonregistrants. [93]  In 1981, several men filed lawsuit in the case Rostker v. Goldberg , alleging that the Military Selective Service Act violates the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment by requiring that men only and not also women register with the Selective Service System. The Supreme Court upheld the act, stating that Congress's "decision to exempt women was not the accidental byproduct of a traditional way of thinking about women", that "since women are excluded from combat service by statute or military policy, men and women are simply not similarly situated for purposes of a draft or registration for a draft, and Congress' decision to authorize the registration of only men therefore does not violate the Due Process Clause", and that "the argument for registering women was based on considerations of equity, but Congress was entitled, in the exercise of its constitutional powers, to focus on the question of military need, rather than 'equity. ' " [94]  The Rostker v. Goldberg opinion's dependence upon deference on decision of the executive to exclude women from combat has garnered renewed scrutiny since the Department of Defense announced its decision in January 2013 to do away with most of the federal policies that have kept women from serving in combat roles in ground war situations. Both the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force had by then already opened up virtually all positions in sea and air combat to women. At least two lawsuits have been filed challenging the continued Constitutionality of requiring men but not women to register with the Selective service System: National Coalition for Men v. Selective Service System (filed April 4, 2013, U.S. District Court for the Central District of California; dismissed by the District Court July 29, 2013 as not "ripe" for decision; appeal argued December 8, 2015 before the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals; [95] reversed and remanded February 19, 2016 [96] ), and Kyle v. Selective Service System (filed July 3, 2015, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey), brought on behalf of Elizabeth Kyle-LaBell, who tried to register but was turned away because she is female. [97]  Conscientious objection [ edit ]  Main article: Conscientious objection in the United States  According to the Selective Service System, [98]   A conscientious objector is one who is opposed to serving in the armed forces and/or bearing arms on the grounds of moral or religious principles. [...] Beliefs which qualify a registrant for CO status may be religious in nature, but don't have to be. Beliefs may be moral or ethical; however, a man's reasons for not wanting to participate in a war must not be based on politics, expediency, or self-interest. In general, the man's lifestyle prior to making his claim must reflect his current claims.  The Supreme Court has ruled in cases United States v. Seeger [99] (1965) and Welsh v. United States [100] (1970) that conscientious objection can be by non-religious beliefs as well as religious beliefs; but it has also ruled in Gillette v. United States (1971) against objections to specific wars as grounds for conscientious objection. [101]  There is currently no mechanism to indicate that one is a conscientious objector in the Selective Service system. According to the SSS, after a person is drafted, he can claim Conscientious Objector status and then justify it before the Local Board. This is criticized because during the times of a draft, when the country is in emergency conditions, there could be increased pressure for Local Boards to be more harsh on conscientious objector claims.  There are two types of status for conscientious objectors. If a person objects only to combat but not to service in the military, then the person could be given noncombatant service in the military without training of weapons . If the person objects to all military service, then the person could be ordered to " alternative service " with a job "deemed to make a meaningful contribution to the maintenance of the national health, safety, and interest".  Poverty Draft [ edit ]  The poverty draft is a controversial belief in some circles that low-income demographics are either intentionally targeted by the military for recruitment, or that their low socioeconomic status makes enlistment especially attractive, such that they are overrepresented in the armed forces. The "poverty draft" is a term describing U.S. military recruiters' purposeful tendency to focus their recruiting efforts on inner-city and poor rural schools. The low-income youth and young people of color who attend these schools generally have fewer good educational and job opportunities than middle-class and wealthy youth and are therefore more likely to enlist. Proponents of the poverty draft view often claim that because of this the U.S. armed forces are disproportionally men and women of color and from poor and working-class backgrounds. [102]  [103]  Selective Service reforms [ edit ]  The Selective Service System has maintained that they have implemented several reforms that would make the draft more fair and equitable.  Some of the measures they have implemented include: [104]   Before and during the Vietnam War, a young man could get a deferment by showing that he was a full-time student making satisfactory progress towards a degree; now deferment only lasts to the end of the semester. If the man is a senior he can defer until the end of the academic year.  The government has said that draft boards are now more representative of the local communities in areas such as race and national origin.  A lottery system would be used to determine the order of people being called up. Previously the oldest men who were found eligible for the draft would be taken first. In the new system, the men called first would be those who are or will turn 20 years old in the calendar year or those whose deferments will end in the calendar year. Each year after, the man will be placed on a lower priority status until his liability ends.   Conscription controversies since 2003 [ edit ]  The effort to enforce Selective Service registration law was abandoned in 1986. Since then, no attempt to reinstate conscription has been able to attract much support in the legislature or among the public. [82] Since early 2003, when the Iraq War appeared imminent, there had been attempts through legislation and campaign  rhetoric to begin a new public conversation on the topic. Public opinion since 1973 has been largely negative.  In 2003, several Democratic congressmen ( Charles Rangel of New York, Jim McDermott of Washington , John Conyers of Michigan , John Lewis of Georgia , Pete Stark of California , Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii ) introduced legislation that would draft both men and women into either military or civilian government service, should there be a draft in the future. The Republican majority leadership suddenly considered the bill, nine months after its introduction, without a report from the Armed Services Committee (to which it had been referred), and just one month prior to the 2004 presidential and congressional elections . The Republican leadership used an expedited parliamentary procedure that would have required a two-thirds vote for passage of the bill. The bill was defeated on October 5, 2004, with two members voting for it and 402 members voting against.  In 2004, the platforms of both the Democratic and Republican parties opposed military conscription, but neither party moved to end draft registration. John Kerry in one debate criticized Bush's policies, "You've got stop-loss policies so people can't get out when they were supposed to. You've got a backdoor draft right now."  This statement was in reference to the U.S. Department of Defense use of "stop-loss" orders, which have extended the Active Duty periods of some military personnel. All enlistees, upon entering the service, volunteer for a minimum eight-year Military Service Obligation (MSO). This MSO is split between a minimum active duty period, followed by a reserve period where enlistees may be called back to active duty for the remainder of the eight years. [105] Some of these active duty extensions have been for as long as two years. The Pentagon stated that as of August 24, 2004, 20,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines had been affected. [106] As of January 31, 2006 it has been reported that more than 50,000 soldiers and reservists had been affected. [107]  Despite arguments by defense leaders that they had no interest in re-instituting the draft, Representative Neil Abercrombie 's (D-HI) inclusion of a DOD memo in the Congressional Record which detailed a meeting by senior leaders signaled renewed interest. Though the conclusion of the meeting memo did not call for a reinstatement of the draft, it did suggest Selective Service Act modifications to include registration by women and self-reporting of critical skills that could serve to meet military, homeland-defense, and humanitarian needs. [108] This hinted at more targeted draft options being considered, perhaps like that of the "Doctor Draft" that began in the 1950s to provide nearly 66% of the medical professionals who served in the Army in Korea. [109] Once created, this manpower tool continued to be used through 1972. The meeting memo gave DOD's primary reason for opposing a draft as a matter of cost effectiveness and efficiency. Draftees with less than two years' retention were said to be a net drain on military resources providing insufficient benefit to offset overhead costs of using them. [22]  Mentions of the draft during the presidential campaign led to a resurgence of anti-draft and draft resistance organizing. [110] One poll of young voters in October 2004 found that 29% would resist if drafted. [111]  In November 2006, Representative Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) again called for the draft to be reinstated; Speaker of the House  Nancy Pelosi rejected the proposal. [112]  On December 19, 2006, President George W. Bush announced that he was considering sending more troops to Iraq. The next day, the Selective Service System's director for operations and chief information officer, Scott Campbell, announced plans for a "readiness exercise" to test the system's operations in 2006, for the first time since 1998. [113]  On December 21, 2006, Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson , when asked by a reporter whether the draft should be reinstated to make the military more equal, said, "I think that our society would benefit from that, yes sir." Nicholson proceeded to relate his experience as a company commander in an infantry unit which brought together soldiers of different socioeconomic backgrounds and education levels, noting that the draft "does bring people from all quarters of our society together in the common purpose of serving". Nicholson later issued a statement saying he does not support reinstating the draft. [114]  On August 10, 2007, with National Public Radio on "All Things Considered", Lieutenant General  Douglas Lute , National Security Adviser to the President and Congress for all matters pertaining to the United States Military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan , expressed support for a draft to alleviate the stress on the Army's all-volunteer force. He cited the fact that repeated deployments place much strain upon one soldier's family and himself which, in turn, can affect retention. [115]  A similar bill to Rangel's 2003 one was introduced in 2007, called the Universal National Service Act of 2007 (H.R. 393), but it has not received a hearing or been scheduled for consideration.  At the end of June 2014 in Pennsylvania 14,250 letters of conscription were erroneously posted to men born in the 19th century calling upon them to register for the US military draft. This was attributed to a clerk at the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation who failed to select a century during a transfer of 400,000 records to the Selective Service. The Selective Service identified 27,218 records of men born in the 19th century made errantly applicable by the change of century and began sending out notices to them on June 30. [116]  On June 14, 2016, the Senate voted to require women to register for the draft, though language requiring this was dropped from later versions of the bill. [117]  Non-citizens [ edit ]  The Selective Service (and the draft) in the United States is not limited to citizens. Howard Stringer , for example, was drafted six weeks after arriving from his native Britain in 1965. [118] [119] Today, non-citizen males of appropriate age in the United States, who are permanent residents (holders of green cards ), seasonal agricultural workers not holding an H-2A Visa, refugees , parolees, asylees, and illegal immigrants , are required to register with the Selective Service System. [120] Refusal to do so is grounds for denial of a future citizenship application. In addition, immigrants who seek to naturalize as citizens must, as part of the Oath of Citizenship, swear to the following:   ... that I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the armed forces of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under civilian direction when required by the law; [121]   The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website also states however:   However, since 1975, USCIS has allowed the oath to be taken without the clauses:". . .that I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the Armed Forces of the United States when required by law...."   Non-citizens who serve in the United States military enjoy several naturalization benefits which are unavailable to non-citizens who do not, such as a waiver of application fees. [122] Permanent resident aliens who die while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces may be naturalized posthumously, which may be beneficial to surviving family members. [123]  See also [ edit ]   Conscription crisis  Demobilization of United States armed forces after World War II  Draft lottery (1969)  National service  Peace Churches  Service Nation   Footnotes [ edit ]    ^  Holbrook, Heber A. The Crisis Years: 1940 and 1941  Archived October 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine . , The Pacific Ship and Shore Historical Review, July 4, 2001. p. 2.  ^  "Who Must Register" . sss.gov. Archived from the original on May 7, 2009.   ^  https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/10/246  ^  https://books.google.com/books?id=sNYc6alAb4IC&pg=PA18&dq=unorganized+militia+conscription&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjzqvzO563YAhWylOAKHVcmAf4Q6AEINjAC#v=onepage&q=unorganized%20militia%20conscription&f=false at page 18  ^  https://www.repository.law.indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=https://www.google.com/&httpsredir=1&article=2659&context=ilj at page 345  ^  John W. Chambers, II, ed. in chief, The Oxford Companion to American Military History (Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN  0-19-507198-0 ), 180.  ^  Webster, Daniel (December 9, 1814) On Conscription , reprinted in Left and Right: A Journal of Libertarian Thought (Autumn 1965)  ^  Chambers, ed. The Oxford Companion to American Military History , 181.  ^  James W. Geary, We Need Men: The Union Draft in the Civil War (1991)  ^  Escott, Paul. Military Necessity: Civil-Military Relations in the Confederacy . Westport, CT: Praeger Security International, 2006.  ^  Arnold Shankman, "Draft Resistance in Civil War Pennsylvania." Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography (1977): 190-204. online  ^  Moore 1924  ^  Howard Zinn, People's History of the United States . (Harper Collins, 2003): 134  ^  Chambers (1987)  ^  Zinn (2003)  ^  Nancy Ford, Americans all!: foreign-born soldiers in World War I (2001)  ^  Chambers, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) p 218  ^ a  b  Shenk 2005 , p. 62.  ^  Chambers, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) pp. 219–20  ^  John Whiteclay Chambers II, To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987) pp. 216–17  ^  Staff of the Catholic Peace Fellowship (2007). "The Life and Witness of Ben Salmon" . Sign of Peace . 6.1 (Spring 2007).   ^ a  b  c  d  e  f  g  Morris, Brett. (2006). The Effects of the Draft on US Presidential Approval Ratings during the Vietnam War, 1954–1975 , Doctoral dissertation, University of Alabama (Tuscaloosa).  ^ a  b  c  d  Flynn, G. (1985). Lewis B. Hershey, Mr. Selective Service. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press.  ^  "What the U.S.A. Thinks" . Life . July 29, 1940. p. 20 . Retrieved November 10, 2011 .   ^  "Survey Shows What Youth is Thinking" . Life . November 30, 1942. p. 110 . Retrieved November 23, 2011 .   ^  George Q. Flynn, The Draft, 1940–1973. (1993)  ^  Clifford, J., & Spencer, S. (1986). First Peacetime Draft. Lawrence, KS: University Press of Kansas.  ^  "Conscription Order #1", Office of the War Department, Records of the Personnel Division (G-1), U.S. National Archives Record Group 165 [1]  ^  "Manpower: Sweeping Changes Halt Enlistments, Cut Top Draft Age to 38, Give McNutt Selective Service Control" . Life . December 21, 1942. p. 27 . Retrieved November 24, 2011 .   ^ a  b  Selective Service System. (May 27, 2003). Induction Statistics. In Inductions (by year) from World War I Through the End of the Draft (1973)  Archived May 7, 2009, at the Wayback Machine . . Retrieved May 5, 2009.  ^  Muller, Eric L. "Draft resistance" . Densho Encyclopedia . Retrieved August 27, 2014 .   ^  Buhle, Paul. "Communist Party, USA" . Encyclopedia of the American Left . Retrieved January 2, 2017 .   ^ a  b  c  Chambers, J. (1987). To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America. New York: Free Press.  ^  Hershey, L. (1960). Outline of Historical Background of Selective Service and Chronology . (Available from Selective Service System, 1724 F Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20435)  ^  Selective Service System. (1953). Selective Service under the 1948 Act extended (212278-53-7). Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.  ^  Gallup, G. (1972). The Gallup Poll: Public opinion, 1935–1971 (Vol. 2). New York: Random House.  ^  Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, Selective Service System. (February 19, 2004). Fast facts. In Effects of Marriage and Fatherhood on Draft Eligibility  Archived May 7, 2009, at the Wayback Machine . . Retrieved May 5, 2009.  ^  Gilliam, R. (1982). The Peacetime Draft: Voluntarism to Coercion. In M. Anderson (Ed.), The Military Draft: Selected Readings on Conscription (pp. 97–116). Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press. (Original work published 1968)  ^  O'Sullivan, J. & A. Meckler. (Eds.). (1974). The Draft and Its Enemies: A Documentary History. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press.  ^  Myra MacPherson (2001). Long Time Passing, New Edition: Vietnam and the Haunted Generation . Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press. p. 92.   ^  Hershey, 1953  ^  House Committee on Appropriations Hearings, 1958.  ^  Chambers, J. (ed), 1987  ^ a  b  Flynn, G. (2000). The Draft, 1940–1973 . Lawrence, KS: University of Kansas Press.  ^ a  b  Useem, M. (1973). Conscription, Protest and Social Conflict: The Life and Death of a Draft Resistance Movement. New York: Wiley.  ^  Oi, W. (1982). "The Economic Cost of the Draft". In M. Anderson (Ed.), The Military Draft: Selected Readings on Conscription (pp. 317–346). Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press.  ^  Angrist, J. (1991). "The Draft Lottery and Voluntary Enlistment in the Vietnam Era". Journal of the American Statistical Association , 86(415), 584–95.  ^  Binkin, M., & Johnston, J. (1973), All-volunteer Armed Forces: Progress, Problems, and Prospects , report by the Brookings Institution prepared for the Senate Armed Services Committee, 93rd Congress, First Session. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office.  ^  Siu, Henry E. (2008). The fiscal role of conscription in the U.S. World War II effort . Journal of Monetary Economics, 55(6).  ^  Marmion, H. (1968). Selective Service: Conflict and Compromise. New York: John Wiley & Sons.  ^  Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, 2004  ^  Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, The nation's manpower revolution, 88th Cong., 2817 (1963) (testimony of Lewis B. Hershey).  ^  Chambers, 1987  ^  Kohn, S. (1986). Jailed for Peace: The History of American Draft Law Violations, 1658–1985 . Westport, CT: Greenwood Press  ^  Orvedahl, Reid. "PrimeTime: Marrying to Avoid Draft" . ABC News . ABC News . Retrieved June 6, 2015 .   ^  Cornell, Tom (2008). "Stephen Spiro, 1940–2007". The Catholic Worker . LXXV (May–June): 6.   ^  U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (Nov 2011). "America's Wars"  (PDF) . Retrieved June 7, 2012 .   ^  Dunnigan, James F (1999). Dirty Little Secrets of the Vietnam War (First ed.). St martin's Press. p. 18. ISBN  0-312-19857-4 .   ^  Chambers, J. (Ed.). (1999). The Oxford Companion to American Military History .  ^  Reeves, T. & Hess, K. (1970). The End of the Draft. New York: Random House.  ^ a  b  c  Thomas W. Evans (Summer 1993). "The All-Volunteer Army After Twenty Years: Recruiting in the Modern Era" . Sam Houston State University . Archived from the original on August 8, 2013 . Retrieved May 5, 2009 .   ^ a  b  c  Aitken, Jonathan (1996). Nixon: A Life . Regnery Publishing . ISBN  0-89526-720-9 .  pp. 396–397.  ^  Ambrose, Stephen (1989). Nixon, Volume Two: The Triumph of a Politician 1962–1972 . Simon & Schuster .  pp. 264–266.  ^ a  b  Griffith, Robert K.; Robert K. Griffith, Jr., John Wyndham Mountcastle (1997). U.S. Army's Transition to the All-volunteer Force, 1868–1974 . DIANE Publishing. ISBN  0-7881-7864-4 .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link ) pp. 40–41.  ^  David E. Rosenbaum (February 3, 1971). "Stennis Favors 4-Year Draft Extension, but Laird Asks 2 Years" . New York Times . Retrieved December 30, 2007 .   ^ a  b  Black, Conrad (2007). "Waging Peace". Richard M. Nixon: A Life in Full . PublicAffairs . ISBN  1-58648-519-9 .   ^  David E. Rosenbaum (June 5, 1971). "Senators Reject Limits on Draft; 2-Year Plan Gains" . New York Times . Retrieved December 29, 2007 .   ^  John W. Finney (May 9, 1971). "Congress vs. President" . New York Times . Retrieved December 31, 2007 .   ^  David E. Rosenbaum (September 22, 1971). "Senate Approves Draft Bill, 55-30; President to Sign" . New York Times . Retrieved December 29, 2007 .   ^  "Selective Service System: History and Records" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on February 27, 2015 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Military draft system stopped" . The Bulletin . Bend, Oregon. UPI. January 27, 1973. p. 1.   ^  "Military draft ended by Laird" . The Times-News . Hendersonville, North Carolina. Associated Press. January 27, 1973. p. 1.   ^  "Selective Service System: History and Records" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on October 6, 2012 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Set to retire, the last Army draftee 'loves being a soldier ' " . Boston Globe . Associated Press. July 4, 2011 . Retrieved February 6, 2013 .   ^  http://content.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,1877943,00.html  ^  Phillips, Michael M. (November 18, 2014). "A Reluctant Soldier Completes His Duty" . Wall Street Journal . Retrieved August 31, 2016 .   ^  Proclamation 4771, Registration Under the Military Selective Service Act, July 2, 1980, 45 FR  45247 , 94 Stat.  3775 . Amended by Proclamation 7275, Registration Under the Military Selective Service Act, February 22, 2000, 65 FR  9199  ^  "Selective Service System" . Sss.gov . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Selective Service System: Fast Facts  Archived July 27, 2008, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  "What If I Choose Not To Register?" . Retrieved July 27, 2008 .   ^  Nelson, Steven (May 3, 2016). "Gender-Neutral Draft Registration Would Create Millions of Female Felons: It's unlikely any would face prison, but jailed draft resisters and former officials urge caution" . U.S. News & World Report . Retrieved May 15, 2016 .   ^ a  b  Edward Hasbrouck. "Prosecutions of Draft Registration Resisters" . Resisters.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "State / Commonwealth and Territory Legislation" . Selective Service System. Archived from the original on April 29, 2015.   ^  "Am I eligible to receive financial aid?" . United States Department of Education .   ^  Edward Hasbrouck. "FAQ about Health Care Workers and the Draft" . Medicaldraft.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Proposed Health care personnel delivery System (HCPDS) , 54 Federal Register , 33644-33654, August 15, 1989.  ^  Roger A. Lalich, Health care personnel delivery System: Another Doctor Draft? (Wisconsin Medical Journal, 2004). Archived July 2, 2010, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  " ' 'Holmes v. United States'', 391 U.S. 936 (1968)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Schenck v. United States'', 249 U.S. 47 (1919)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Gilbert v. Minnesota''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Cohen v. California'', 403 U.S. 15 (1971)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'United States v. O'Brien'', 391 U.S. 367 (1968)" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and Health Care Workers and Women and the Draft" . Resisters.info . Retrieved February 21, 2016 .   ^  Rostker v. Goldberg , Cornell Law School, retrieved December 26, 2006.  ^  Hasbrouck, Edward. "Extend draft registration to women -- or end it?" . The Practical Nomad . Retrieved February 22, 2016 .   ^  Hasbrouck, Edward. "Future of Draft for Men and Women Goes to Court and Congress" . WorldBeyondWar.org . Retrieved February 22, 2016 .   ^  "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and Health Care Workers and Women and the Draft" . Resisters.info . Retrieved February 21, 2016 .   ^  "Selective Service System: Fast Facts" . Sss.gov. Archived from the original on May 7, 2009 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'United States v. Seeger''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com. March 8, 1965 . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Welsh v. United States''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  " ' 'Gillette v. United States''" . Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "The National Youth and Militarism Program : "The Poverty Draft" (PDF) (Accessed 3/14/06)"  (PDF) . American Friends Service Committee . Archived from the original  (PDF) on 2008-01-09.   ^  Mariscal, Jorge. "Fighting the Poverty Draft" . Counterpunch . Retrieved 12 September 2017 .   ^  "Differences Between The Selective Service Today And During Vietnam" . sss.gov . Archived from the original on May 13, 2013 . Retrieved May 1, 2013 .   ^  "Directive 1304.25 Fulfilling the Military Service Obligation (MSO)" . U.S. Department of Defense. August 25, 1997. Archived from the original on November 14, 2004.   ^  AlterNet / By Richard Muhammad (August 23, 2004). "War on Iraq: Firing Back" . AlterNet . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  Stop-loss used to retain 50,000 troops | csmonitor.com  Archived September 25, 2008, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Congressional Record. 108th Cong., 2d sess., 2004. Vol. 150, No. 130: E1938.  ^  Salyer, J. (April 26, 1954). "Training of medical officers". In Medical Science Publication 4, Recent Advances in Medicine and Surgery (19-30 April 1954): Based on Professional Medical Experiences in Japan and Korea 1950–1953 (chap.2) . Retrieved May 5, 2009. Archived August 10, 2007, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Edward Hasbrouck. "Draft Registration, Draft Resistance, the Military Draft, and the Medical Draft in the USA" . Resisters.info . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Newsweek Poll: Youth Vote Shows Bush, Kerry Neck-and-Neck (47% for Kerry, 45% for Bush); But Kerry's Lead Grows Among Likely Voters (52% to 42%)" . Prnewswire.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .   ^  "Pelosi says no to draft legislation" . CNN . November 20, 2006 . Retrieved July 10, 2011 .   ^  (December 22, 2006). "abc7.com: U.S. Testing National Draft Readiness 12/22/06" . Abclocal.go.com . Retrieved October 28, 2013 .  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list ( link )  [ dead link ]  ^  "VA Head: Draft Beneficial to Society, Veterans Affairs Secretary Says Military Draft Beneficial, but He Doesn't Support It – CBS News" . Archived from the original on May 15, 2008.   ^  Bush War Adviser Supports Considering a Military Draft FOXNews.com  ^  Y2K bug triggers army conscription notices sent to 14,000 dead men | Technology | The Guardian  ^  Steinhauer, Jennifer (June 14, 2016). "Senate Votes to Require Women to Register for the Draft" . New York Times . Retrieved June 16, 2016 .   ^  Grifiths, Katherine. " Sir Howard Stringer, U.S. Head Of Sony: Sony's knight buys Tinseltown dream ." The Independent , September 18, 2004.  ^  " The Interview: Howard Stringer. " The Independent , March 21, 2005. Archived August 5, 2010, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  Selective Service System – Who Must Register  Archived November 5, 2006, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  USCIS Home Page  ^  Naturalization Information for Military Personnel USCIS Archived November 27, 2005, at the Wayback Machine .  ^  The ABC's of Immigration: Military Service – March 29, 2005  Archived September 10, 2006, at the Wayback Machine .    References and further reading [ edit ]     Wikimedia Commons has media related to Conscription .     Martin Anderson; Valerie Bloom (1976). Conscription: a select and annotated bibliography . Hoover Press. ISBN  978-0-8179-2571-0 .  . ( Full text ).  Leach, Jack F. Conscription in the United States: Historical Background. (Rutland, Vt., 1952)   American Revolution [ edit ]   Dougherty, Keith L. Collective Action under the Articles of Confederation. Cambridge U. Press, 2001. 211 pp.   Civil War [ edit ]   Bernstein, Iver. The New York City Draft Riots: Their Significance for American Society and Politics in the Age of the Civil War (1990). online edition  Cruz, Barbara C. and Jennifer Marques Patterson. "'In the Midst of Strange and Terrible Times': The New York City Draft Riots of 1863. Social Education. v. 69#1 2005. pp 10+, with teacher's guide and URL's. online version  Geary, James W. We Need Men: The Union Draft in the Civil War (1991) pp. 264  Geary, James W. "Civil War Conscription in the North: A Historiographical Review," Civil War History 32 (1986): 208–28, online  Hilderman, Walter C., III. They Went into the Fight Cheering! Confederate Conscription in North Carolina. Boone, N.C.: Parkway, 2005. pp. 272  Hyman, Harold M. A More Perfect Union: The Impact of the Civil War and Reconstruction on the Constitution. (1973), ch 13. online edition  Kenny, Kevin. "Abraham Lincoln and the American Irish." American Journal of Irish Studies (2013): 39-64.  Levine, Peter. "Draft Evasion in the North during the Civil War, 1863–1865," Journal of American History 67 (1981): 816–34 online edition  Moore, Albert Burton. Conscription and Conflict in the Confederacy 1924 online edition  Murdoch, Eugene C. One Million Men: The Civil War Draft in the North (1971).  Shankman, Arnold. "Draft Resistance in Civil War Pennsylvania." Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography (1977): 190-204. online  Wheeler, Kenneth H. "Local Autonomy and Civil War Draft Resistance: Holmes County, Ohio." Civil War History. v.45#2 1999. pp 147+ online edition   World War I [ edit ]   Chambers II, John Whiteclay. To Raise an Army: The Draft Comes to Modern America (1987), comprehensive look at the national level.  Ford, Nancy Gentile (2001). Americans All!: Foreign-born Soldiers in World War I . Texas A&M University Military History Series:73. ISBN  978-1-60344-132-2 .   Ford, Nancy Gentile. "'Mindful of the Traditions of His Race': Dual Identity and Foreign-born Soldiers in the First World War American Army." Journal of American Ethnic History 1997 16(2): 35–57. ISSN  0278-5927 Fulltext: in Ebsco  Hickle, K. Walter. "'Justice and the Highest Kind of Equality Require Discrimination': Citizenship, Dependency, and Conscription in the South, 1917–1919." Journal of Southern History. v. 66#4 2000. pp 749+ online version  Keith, Jeanette. "The Politics of Southern Draft Resistance, 1917–1918: Class, Race, and Conscription in the Rural South." Journal of American History 2000 87(4): 1335–1361. ISSN  0021-8723 Fulltext: in Jstor and Ebsco  Keith, Jeanette. Rich Man's War, Poor Man's Fight: Race, Class, and Power in the Rural South during the First World War. 2004. 260pp.  Kennedy, David M. Over Here: The First Worm War and American Society (1980), ch 3 online edition  Shenk, Gerald E. "Race, Manhood, and Manpower: Mobilizing Rural Georgia for World War I," Georgia Historical Quarterly , 81 (Fall 1997), 622–62  Woodward, C. Vann. Tom Watson, Agrarian Rebel (1938), pp 451–63.  Sieger, Susan. "She Didn't Raise Her Boy to Be a Slacker: Motherhood, Conscription, and the Culture of the First World War." Feminist Studies. v.22#1 1996. pp 7+ online edition  Shenk, Gerald E. (2005). "Work or fight!": Race, Gender, and the Draft in World War One . Macmillan Publishers . ISBN  978-1-4039-6175-4 .    World War II [ edit ]   Flynn, George Q. The Draft, 1940–1973. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1993; the standard history  Garry, Clifford J. and Samuel R. Spencer Jr. The First Peacetime Draft. 1986.  Goossen, Rachel Waltner; Women against the Good War: Conscientious Objection and Gender on the American Home Front, 1941–1947 1997 online edition  Westbrook, Robert. "'I Want a Girl Just Like the Girl That Married Harry James': American Women and the Problem of Political Obligation in WWII," American Quarterly 42 (December 1990): 587–614; online in JSTOR   Cold War and Vietnam [ edit ]   Lawrence M. Baskir; William A. Strauss (1978). Chance and Circumstance: The Draft, the War, and the Vietnam Generation . Random House. ISBN  0-394-72749-5 .   Flynn, George Q. The Draft, 1940–1973. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1993; the standard history  Marc Leepson, "What It Was Like to Be Drafted," The New York Times , "Vietnam '67," July 21, 2017 .   Recent [ edit ]   Halstead, Fred. GIs Speak out against the War: The Case of the Ft. Jackson 8 . 128 pages. New York: Pathfinder Press. 1970.  Warner, John T. and Beth J. Asch. "The Record and Prospects of the All-volunteer Military in the United States." Journal of Economic Perspectives 2001 15(2): 169–192. ISSN  0895-3309 Fulltext: in Jstor and Ebsco  Wooten; Evan M. "Banging on the Backdoor Draft: The Constitutional Validity of Stop-Loss in the Military" , William and Mary Law Review , Vol. 47, 2005  Chambers II, John Whiteclay, ed. Draftees or Volunteers: A Documentary History of the Debate over Military Conscription in the United States, 1787–1973 , (1975) (1976) (2011)   External links [ edit ]     Look up conscription in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.     "What It Was Like to be Drafted," The New York Times , "Vietnam '67," July 21, 2017 .  Selective Service System official website  Resisters.info  Rolling Stone magazine: "The Return of the Draft" 2005  How To Beat The Draft Board  Reinstating the military draft by Walter E. Williams  Are You Going to be Drafted? by Rod Powers. Discusses the improbability of the draft returning.  World War I: Conscription Laws from the Library of Congress Blog        Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Conscription_in_the_United_States&oldid=833305189 "  Categories : Conscription in the United States Conscription by country United States military policies American nationalism Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2015 Use mdy dates from August 2016 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014 All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from December 2015 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2009      Navigation menu    Personal tools   Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in      Namespaces   Article Talk       Variants           Views   Read Edit View history      More         Search              Navigation    Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store      Interaction    Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page      Tools    What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page      Print/export    Create a book Download as PDF Printable version      In other projects    Wikimedia Commons      Languages    Français   Edit links        This page was last edited on 30 March 2018, at 19:14.  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.    Privacy policy  About Wikipedia  Disclaimers  Contact Wikipedia  Developers  Cookie statement  Mobile view                                      Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                        America may never have a draft again. But we’re still punishing low-income men for not registering     More than 40 years since America's last draft, failing to register for selective service can mean missing out on crucial benefits.            More than 40 years since America's last draft, failing to register for selective service can mean missing out on crucial benefits.        By Tina Griego   By Tina Griego  Email the author   October 16, 2014  Email the author  Follow @tinagriego        Draft Director Curtis W. Tarr spins one of the two Plexiglas drums in Washington on Feb. 2, 1972, as the fourth annual Selective Service lottery begins. Inside are capsules containing birth dates and orders of assignment for men born in 1953. (Charles W. Harrity/AP)   The last time Danieldevel Davis got out of prison it was 2012 and he was 38.  “I ain’t going back into no man’s prison again,” he vowed.  He’d been locked up for six years, which was the longest he’d ever lived in one place. Davis grew up in foster homes, dropped out of school in the 11 th grade and then hit the revolving door: streets, juvenile detention, streets, prison. He’s never possessed a driver’s license. He’s never had a bill in his name.  “I’ve never had anything in my name,” he says.  So, this is what happened when Davis went to fill out his financial aid paperwork at a Virginia Beach technical college.  “Have you registered for the Selective Service?” the financial aid officer asked.  “What do you mean?” Davis said.  “Did you register to be drafted?”  “Huh?”  This may be a nation with an all-volunteer military, one that ended conscription more than 40 years ago, but federal law still requires men ages 18 to 25 to register for a draft that does not exist. There are few exemptions and no second chances.  Davis never registered with the Selective Service System and so learned that he was looking at potentially lifelong consequences. No access to federal student loans or grants. No federal job training money or certain government jobs. And, in Virginia, no driver’s license.  “I didn’t know I had to register and now I can’t get anything,” Davis says. “I can’t do nothing.”  The odds of this country returning to a draft are almost zero, but the price for failure to register is high and is largely born by the men who can ill afford to pay it: high school dropouts, disconnected inner city residents, ex-offenders and immigrants — legal and unauthorized — who do not know that failure to register can jeopardize citizenship. In other words, those precisely in need of the type of job training, education and citizenship opportunities that could help move them from the margins to the mainstream.  In California, the Selective Service System estimates, men who failed to register were denied access to more than $99 million in federal and state financial aid and job training benefits between 2007 and April of this year. Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachusetts saw $35 million in combined lost benefits between 2011 and spring 2014.  “Why are we setting up these barriers?” says Regina Tyler, director of Virginia State University’s Upward Bound program and the Education Opportunity Center, which helps adults return to school. “Why are we attaching them to financial aid? We don’t have a draft, so what is the point?”  The point, supporters of registration long have argued, is that almost-zero odds of conscription are not zero odds.  “You can never say never,” says Lawrence G. Romo,  director of the Selective Service System. “We are a deterrent. We want to make sure our adversaries understand that if we had an extreme national emergency, we would have the draft.”  A fair and equitable draft, which would include alternatives to military service, requires 100 percent compliance, he argues. “We need to have some type of penalty in order to help us get that compliance.”  The agency grants few exceptions , but, Romo emphasizes, it is ultimately up to the financial aid officer or the workforce specialist – the agency dispensing the benefit  – to decide whether someone “knowingly and willfully” violated the law and therefore should be denied.  “The door may have closed, but the window may still be pried open,” agency spokesman Matthew Tittmann puts it.  A majority of men do register – 2.5 million in 2013 alone. The agency casts a huge, largely effective dragnet in high schools, motor vehicle departments, post offices and elsewhere. The average compliance rate nationally among 19-year-olds who registered last year was 89 percent.  So, how many run into the sanctions as Davis did? There’s no good way to track, but the Selective Service System estimates it’s in the tens of thousands every year.  Men such as Davis also make up part of a larger group of suspected violators  of the law whose names the agency turns over every year to the Department of Justice, which hasn’t prosecuted anyone for the offense since 1986. The potential for  punishment is there, however: A fine of up to $250,000 and/or up to five years in prison.  The federal sanctions are just the half of it. According to the Selective Service System, 32 states now have made registration a prerequisite to a variety of benefits , from state financial aid to state jobs to tuition breaks. Tennessee requires males who failed to register to pay out-of-state tuition to attend the University of Tennessee system – even if they are state residents and citizens.   Selective Service registration raises two separate but related issues, the larger of which is whether it is necessary in the absence of a declared war or national emergency, and if so, whether it is discriminatory in an age of expanded roles for women in military combat. (Short and hotly-debated answers: Maybe and yes. Neither of which will be decided by the Selective Service agency itself.)  But the concerns of Davis and men like him are more immediate: how to move forward when his education path is blocked. Davis is working part-time as a janitor for $7.50 an hour and cannot pay for school without help.  “The job part I understand because I put myself in this position, that’s the bed I laid in,” he says. “But as far as the Selective Service goes, I don’t feel as though I should be punished. I am someone trying to rehabilitate myself and go to school.”  By far, the agency’s most successful tool to enforce compliance lies in the issuance of state driver’s licenses. Forty states, the District of Columbia and four U.S. territories now tie issuance or renewal of driver’s licenses to Selective Service registration. Most of those have moved to an automatic registration. Other have opt-in or opt-out provisions. Agency spokesman, Mr Tittmann, indicated that Selective Service strongly favors state laws for automatic registration when getting a driver’s license because it helps those most in need of the benefits linked to registration – young men out the mainstream, the disadvantaged, minorities, and immigrants.  “This is absolutely unfair,” Rep. Mike Coffman, a veteran of both Iraq wars, says of the sanctions. Coffman, a Republican from Colorado, is among the most outspoken critics of the system. Earlier this year, he co-sponsored a bipartisan bill that would abolish the $23 million agency , suspending registration – and sanctions — except by executive order in a time of national emergency.  “The Selective Service is a bureaucracy that needs to die because it no longer serves a viable purpose,” he said in an e-mail. “Even during the height of the War in Iraq and Afghanistan the Department of Defense never considered using the draft.”  Says Romo, “You have 435 congressmen and so you have 435 opinions on the Selective Service.”  One of them, he notes, belongs to Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel of New York, who earlier this year introduced two bills related to the draft . The first would require women to register with the Selective Service . The second calls for all citizens and residents between 18 and 25 to perform two years of military or community service and would reinstate the draft only when a clear threat to the nation is present and Congress formally has declared war or the president proclaims a national emergency.  Rangel has long argued that the burden of fighting war has fallen unfairly on the shoulders of a few , and that a more-inclusive draft “would compel everyone in the nation to stop and think about who we sent to wars, how we fight – and why we fight them at all.”  But, Rangel says, until the day comes that the United States is engaged in a declared war and the nation’s security is violated — or Congress passes his National Service Act — there is no reason for the Selective Service System. “Having people penalized for not registering is a fraud,” he said.  Rangel emphasized that registration is current law and should be followed, but said he now intends to introduce a  draft-related bill — one abolishing the service.  Romo argues that if the system were abolished, the nation would lose time it could not afford in reactivating it in the event of national emergency. “It would take a minimum of two or three years to get the system going,” he said. It’s about readiness, he says, “and the Selective Service is a very inexpensive insurance policy.”  The agency, he says, is engaged in constant public outreach, particularly to those most in danger of falling through the cracks. That includes education sessions in inner-city neighborhoods, the Bureau of Prisons, halfway houses and groups working with immigrants and minorities. “We are trying to ensure that a man does not ace himself out of potential opportunities down the road because he was ignorant of the fact he had to register,” Romo says.  Until a few days ago, Davis did not realize that in the phrase “knowingly and willfully” lies his hope. He thinks he can prove to a financial aid officer that he did not deliberately evade his duty. He’s calling his former probation officer to get his juvenile and adult criminal records and is trying to figure out how to get his school records. Davis is building his case.                     Tina Griego is a reporter for Storyline. Previously, Tina was a city columnist for the Rocky Mountain News and the Denver Post for a combined 12 years.  Follow @tinagriego                                  Close    Now Playing                                                                              Sections       Sections      Top Stories      Watch      U.S.      International      Politics      ABC News Features      Lifestyle      Entertainment      Virtual Reality      Health      Technology      Investigative      Sports      Weather        Shows       Shows      Good Morning America      World News Tonight      Nightline      20/20      This Week      The View      What Would You Do?      ABC News Features        Live       Live      Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies on data protection       UN Security Council meeting on Syria       Senate debates nomination for federal judge in Kentucky       Mixture of rain and snow hitting the Northeast: Radar       @4:45p: House meets for legislative business       Old Faithful Geyser in Yellowstone National Park       California Academy of Sciences coral reef cam       Kittens play on 'Dorm Cam' in Los Angeles       Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies on Capitol Hill       Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before Senate on data privacy         More       Privacy Policy      Your CA Privacy Rights      Children's Online Privacy Policy      Interest-Based Ads      Terms of Use      Contact Us      Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.        Search                    Menu          Interest Successfully Added  We'll notify you here with news about AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest?    Off  On          Notifications           Notifications For Interests:         Breaking      Interests See All           To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up       Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news?     Off  On          Log In         Video    Live    Shows      Good Morning America  Good Morning America      World News Tonight  World News Tonight      Nightline  Nightline      20/20  20/20      This Week  This Week      The View  The View      What Would You Do?  What Would You Do?      ABC News Features  ABC News Features              U.S.    ABC News Features    Politics    International    Entertainment    Lifestyle    Health    Virtual Reality    Investigative    Technology    Weather    Sports       Privacy Policy Privacy Policy    Your CA Privacy Rights Your CA Privacy Rights    Children's Online Privacy Policy Children's Online Privacy Policy    Interest-Based Ads Interest-Based Ads    Terms of Use Terms of Use    Contact Us Contact Us        Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.                           What Is the Draft and How Does It Work?   By ABC News  June 23, 2005   0 Shares               Email      Star    0 Shares               Email      Though President Bush and the Defense Department have dismissed the notion, speculation about the possible return of the draft has remained steady in recent months. Democratic lawmakers in particular have raised the issue, as the military struggles to meet recruiting targets. The nation's first military draft began in 1940, when President Roosevelt signed the Selective Training and Service Act. The draft continued through war and peacetime until 1973. More than 10 million men entered military service through the Selective Service System during World War II alone.  To instate a draft again, Congress must pass legislation to begin the process and the president must sign the legislation. The Selective Service System may give as much as three months notice (according to current regulations) before it institutes a draft. Under the law, virtually all male U.S. citizens and male aliens are required to register through Selective Service, which was reinstated by President Carter in 1980. These days you can even do so online through the selective service's Web site. Those who fail to register with Selective Service before turning age 26, even if not prosecuted, will become ineligible for federal financial aid, citizenship, federal job training and federal jobs. Aliens will become ineligible to become citizens. To be inducted men have to meet the physical, mental and administrative standards established by the military services. Draftees would be selected by lottery. The first to be called would be men whose 20th birthday falls during that year. If necessary, they would be followed by those aged 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. Those who are 18 or turning 19 would probably not be drafted, according to the Selective Service System.  When someone is selected, a notice will be sent to the address supplied by that person on their registration acknowledgment card. Ten days after the date on the notice, the Selective Service System requests that the draftee get a physical and report to a location for induction. It could be as little as 45 days from the time the president signs the order to implement the draft to the day that the first recruits begin showing up at basic training camps.  According to current plans, the Selective Service System must deliver the first inductees to the military within 193 days from the onset of a crisis. Basic training, usually eight weeks, is the next step. The length of time for advanced training is dependent on the complexity of the job the individual has been assigned. A recruit could be on the ground in combat five months from the day they were drafted. Avoiding the draft will be more difficult than it was for those in the Vietnam era. College and even Canada won't be options. In 2001, Canada and the United States signed a "smart border declaration," which could be used to keep would-be draft dodgers in. The declaration involves a 30-point plan which implements a "pre-clearance agreement" of people entering and departing each country. Underclassmen would only be able to postpone service until the end of their current semester. Seniors would have until the end of the academic year. Those wishing to claim conscientious objector status must show that service would be incompatible with their moral or ethical beliefs. Politics, expediency, or self-interest are not considered suitable reasons to avoid the draft. The local draft board would be responsible for deciding whether to approve the request.       0 Shares               Email      Star      Comments     Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you.      To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up »                  What Is the Draft and How Does It Work?       + War Resisters Remain in Canada with No Regrets   + Bringing Back the Draft?       Zuckerberg faces congressional grilling over Facebook user privacy, 2016 election          Trump administration bid to unravel bipartisan spending deal faces uphill climb          California only border state yet to announce National Guard deployment           Internal documents question EPA justification for Pruitt's security spending          Trump's homeland security adviser unexpectedly resigning          Trump-appointed US attorney recused from Michael Cohen investigation          Trump cancels South America trip because of Syria, White House says          Trump 'less inclined' to sit down with Mueller after raid on attorney: Sources          The Note: Facebook's self-regulation failure          Fox News host returns following boycott, says liberals 'cutting off free speech'          CBO: Higher deficit, stronger growth due to recent legislation          Trump calls raid on his personal lawyer's home and offices 'a disgrace'          Dad allegedly killed 5-year-old son by hitting him repeatedly: Affidavit          Cindy Hyde-Smith swearing in gives US Senate historic number of women          Florida Gov. Rick Scott enters Senate race, setting up expensive contest          Frustrated teachers turn activism into candidacies for local office          Inside Jared Kushner's personal crusade to reform America's prisons          Writing, speaking, meatball subs: Justice Gorsuch's 1st year          Amid trade fight, Trump says China will do the 'right thing'                                      Search                    Search                Home    Registration    Register Now    Check a Registration    Men 26 and OLDER    Forms    Why Register    Who Must Register    How to Register    Change of Information    Proof of Registration    State – Commonwealth Legislation    Women And Draft    Online Registration FAQ    Status Information Letter      Volunteers    Board Member Program    Registrar Program    State Volunteers      Public Affairs    Media    The Register Newsletter    Compliance Rates      Reports    Annual Report to Congress    FOIA    Financial Reports    Other Reports and Publications      FAQs    Fast Facts      About    Director's Biography    Agency Mission    Alternative Service    Quick Facts and Figures    Contact Information    Return to the Draft    Registration Resources               About Return to the Draft Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals          About the Agency     Director's Biography  What does the Agency provide for the Nation?  Agency Mission  Military Selective Service Act    Alternative Service  Alternative Service Employer Network  Conscientious Objector  The Courage of their Convictions      Agency Structure  Reserve Forces Officers  Local Boards    Quick Facts and Figures  History And Records  Background Of Selective Service  Past Directors of the Selective Service System  Induction Statistics  The Vietnam Lotteries    Contact Information  Records Information    Return to the Draft  Sequence of Events  Selective Service Lottery  How The Draft Has Changed Since Vietnam  Draft Cards  Medical Draft in Standby Mode  Classifications  Postponements, Deferments, Exemptions  Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals  Only Sons and Sole Surviving Sons  Effects of Marriage and Fatherhood on Draft Eligibility    Sources of Information on Selective Service  Registration Resources  Registration Resources  2015 Banner Ads  2014 Banner Ads  2013 Banner Ads  2012 Banner Ads  Older Banner Ads    Juvenile Justice Toolkit  Targeted Article  Fast Facts  Sample Social Media Post    Recreational Directors Toolkit  Board Member Resources  Immigration Attorneys Toolkit  Legislator and Community Leader Toolkit              Non-Citizens and Dual Nationals    U.S. non-citizens and dual nationals are required by law to register with the Selective Service System. Most are also liable for induction into the U.S. Armed Forces if there is a draft. They would also be eligible for any deferments, postponements, and exemptions available to all other registrants.   If There is a Military Draft Underway  However, some non-citizens and dual nationals would be exempt from induction into the military if there is a draft, depending on their country of origin and other factors. Some of these exemptions are shown below:  A non-citizen who has lived in the U.S. for less than one year is exempt from induction.  A dual national whose other country of nationality has an agreement with the U.S. which specifically provides for an exemption is exempt from induction  Some countries have agreements with the U.S. which exempt a non-citizen national who is a citizen of both that country and the U.S. from military service in the U.S. Armed Forces. A non-citizen who requests and is exempt under an agreement or bilateral treaty can never become a U.S. citizen, and may have trouble reentering the U.S. if he leaves.  A non-citizen who served at least a year in the military of a country with which the U.S. is involved in mutual defense activities will be exempt from military service if he is a national of a country that grants reciprocal privileges to citizens of the U.S.  During a draft, any claims for exemptions based on any of the above categories would be granted or denied by a man's Local Board .  Military examiners make the final decision about who will be accepted into the military.   Non-citizen and dual national men MUST still register with the Selective Service System.  They are not exempt from the registration requirement.                 Who Are you?    Men 18-25   Men 26 and Older   Men Born Before 1960   Veterans   Immigrants   Women   Students  SSS Employees         Influencers    Parents / Guardians Organizations U.S. Postal Employees Government Agencies Media  Financial Aid Officers         Volunteers    Board Members  Registrars  State Resource Volunteers         Reports     Annual Reports  FOIA  Financial Reports  EEO  Information Quality         Connect                        HOME | About Us | Contact Us | FAQs | Resources | Careers | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | FOIA | EEO | Accessibility | USA.gov         Copyright 2018 by Selective Service System                   Resistance News  Latest updates:   National Commission holding public hearings and taking written comments on draft registration  Next open-mike public hearing: Thursday, 19 April 2018, 3-5 p.m., Denver, CO  Podcast (35 min.): The Future of Draft Registration in the U.S. (Courage to Resist, 22 February 2018)  Op-Ed: Dump draft registration, don’t extend it to women ( San Francisco Chronicle , 4 June 2016; PDF )               What To Do If You Don't Want To Be Drafted      These are your options if you don't want to be drafted:   Don't register with the Selective Service System.  Don't tell Selective Service your new address when you move.  Get lucky in the draft lottery.  Don't show up for induction.  Show up and flunk the physical.  Show up and refuse induction.  Convince the draft board that you're a conscientious objector , and do alternative service.  Convince the draft board that you qualify for some other deferment (most people don't).  Leave the country, or hide, for the rest of your life.  Tell your Representative in Congress to support H.R. 4523 "To repeal the Military Selective Service Act, and thereby terminate the registration requirements of such Act and eliminate civilian local boards, civilian appeal boards, and similar local agencies of the Selective Service System." Urge Senators to introduce a similar bill.  Organize now against the draft.   The surest way not to be drafted is to prevent the draft entirely. This leaflet explains how you can help protect yourself from the draft by joining in the resistance to the draft and wars.   [San Francisco, 22 March 1980. Photo by Chris Booth for Resistance News ]  Will There Be A Draft?  With the U.S. at war in Iraq, Afghanistan, and more and more other countries, recruiters won't be able to meet their quotas forever. With American soldiers dying every day in foreign wars and occupations, people don't want to enlist no matter how desperate they are for a job. Even if the fighting stops soon, U.S. troops will probably stay in Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Gulf for years. If Army recruits have to spend years sitting in the desert in a hostile country, who's going to volunteer next year ... or the year after? Members of Congress are already talking about bringing back the draft -- but they're afraid of draft resistance, which has already made draft registration unenforceable .  Who Will Be Drafted?  The first people to get drafted will probably be doctors, nurses, and other health care workers (both men and women). The military was short of health care workers even before the current wars began, and as the bodies pile up Congress may authorize a "Doctor Draft" of medical professionals. Selective Service has contingency plans for a Health Care Personnel Delivery System to draft men and women ages 20 through 44 who are doctors, nurses, technicians, therapists, or other medical professionals. (One way for such people not to be drafted -- unless they are also young men eligible for the general draft -- is to give up their medical or professional licenses. But they'll have to do it before they are drafted. Unless you're already thinking about a career change, that's not much of a choice.) For more on the health workers draft, see www.MedicalDraft.info .  If there is a draft for cannon fodder, men who registered for the draft (if you didn't register, you won't be drafted) and who turn 20 this year would be called up first. In 2016, men born in 1996 would be drafted first. It would be up to Congress, when it decides to reinstate authority for inductions, to decide whether or not to include women .   Will Women Be Drafted?   A draft of health care workers would include women as well as men. Only men are currently required to register or would be included in a general draft. But Congress is currently considering proposals to expand draft registration to women as well as proposals to end draft registration entirely . Young women (up until their 26th birthday) need to think about what they will do if they are ordered to register for the draft, and organize now against the draft.  What Will Happen To Me?  If you get drafted, you'll get a letter giving you ten days to report for a pre-induction medical exam. If you show up, pass the physical, and submit to induction, they'll put you on a bus to basic training the same day.  We can't give you any guarantees about what will happen. There is a lot you can do to keep from being drafted, but luck plays a big role. The government can always violate its own policies or invent new ones. You have to weigh the uncertain legal risks of resisting the draft, against the very clear hazards of submitting to the draft -- the choices aren't easy.  If the Vietnam War draft is a guide, the odds favor people who resist. Most of the people who resisted illegally -- especially those who never registered -- were never caught. They weren't drafted, they didn't go to prison, and they were never even charged in court. Even of the 210,000 men who were formally accused of violating the draft laws, only 4,000 went to prison. Another 5,000 got probation, and 41,000 avoided prosecution by submitting to induction. The rest -- more than 75% -- were either never caught, never went to trial, won in court, or flunked their induction physicals!  What If I Didn't Register?  You're not alone. Millions of men have refused to register since 1980, and millions more have violated the draft laws in other ways. Only 20 nonregistrants were prosecuted,  none since 1986! Most nonregistrants will never be caught, even if there's a draft.  If you decide to resist registration or induction, you'll probably get warning letters from Selective Service. These letters are usually junk mail, and you are unlikely to be prosecuted for ignoring them. In 2015, the SSS forwarded 146,000 names and addresses of suspected nonregistrants to the Justice Department. None of them were investigated or prosecuted. It's been like that every year since 1988, when the Justice Department refused to investigate or prosecute any more draft registration resisters.  Men who haven't registered for the draft are ineligible for Federal student aid and some other Federal benefits. But you can register without penalty at any time until you turn 26. The safest course of action if you don't want to risk being drafted, but also don't want to risk being penalized later in life for not having registered for the draft, is probably to wait until just before your 26th birthday, and register then.  The dangerous letters are Certified or Registered letters (letters you have to sign for). Don't sign for any letter from Selective Service or the Justice Department. Your signature is evidence that you know you are supposed to register or appear for induction. Refuse to accept the letter, and see a draft counselor or lawyer immediately.  Even if you are caught, there's a good chance you won't be prosecuted. The courts are already overwhelmed by the war on drugs; the government could only afford to prosecute a few token or outspoken draft resisters.  Most people who are caught will be able to avoid prosecution by registering and submitting to the draft. Even the vocal public nonregistrants prosecuted in the early 1980s were allowed to register without penalty up until the day they went on trial.  Some will choose to go to trial, and a few may not get that "last chance" to register. A criminal record is no laughing matter, but many draft resisters imprisoned during the Vietnam War, as well as some of the 20 nonregistrants prosecuted in the early 1980s , now hold professional jobs in business, in academia, and with non-governmental organizations. Most are proud of what they did and would do it again. Besides, is life in a minimum-security prison any worse than life in the Army? Some of us who have been there think not.  But What If I Already Registered?  If Selective Service doesn't know where you live, they might never find you. When the GAO audited the Selective Service in 1982, they estimated that 20-40% of the addresses in SSS records were wrong. There hasn't been an audit since then, but today the figure is probably a lot higher -- 50% or more. So, again, you're not alone. Almost nobody tell the Selective Service when they move. If you don't tell Selective Service where you live, or if you ignore an induction notice, the same legal risks we talked about for nonregistrants would apply. In order to prosecute you, they would have to prove that you actually knew you were breaking the law. That will be very difficult without proof that you got their notices. So if they finally found you, you could probably avoid prosecution by submitting to the draft at that point.  You should think about what you want your parents (or whoever lives at the address you gave when you registered) to do if the government comes looking for you. If you want to resist the draft and your parents support you, they can help by sending back, unopened, any mail for you from Selective Service. You can help yourself by doing the same thing.  It's a crime to lie to Selective Service or the FBI, but you have the right to remain silent. When they say, "Anything you say will be used against you," they mean it. Your family doesn't have to accept mail for you, or tell the Feds where you live or anything else about you.  What If I Refuse To Go?  If you ignore your induction notice, and they find you, you'll almost certainly be given another chance to cooperate. Selective Services records are so inaccurate that tens of thousands of people will never receive their induction notices. Selective Service will probably assume you're one of them.  If you get a draft notice, show up, and refuse induction, you'll probably be prosecuted . However, some people will slip through the cracks in the system, and some will win in court.  If you show up and take the physical, there's a good chance that you'll flunk. (If you have a medical problem that would make it hard for you to be a soldier, you should see a draft counselor and a doctor now and get documentation of your condition.) But if you pass, you'll really be stuck. Those who get that far and then refuse induction will be much easier to find and convict than those who don't show up at all.  If you pass the physical and then don't want to go, tell the soldiers who are ordering you around that you are refusing to be inducted. Remember: once you submit to induction, you'll be under military law, which is much harsher than civilian law. Don't take that step.  Can I Go To Canada?  Maybe, but you can't count on it. So far, Canada has refused to grant sanctuary to U.S. military resisters. Like other countries, Canada has its own unemployment and economic problems, and doesn't welcome unskilled young Americans. If your asylum claim is denied, and you don't meet the qualifications for Canadian immigration, you'd be deported back to the U.S. Health care workers might be more welcome, though licensing might present a problem. workers might be more welcome, though licensing might present a problem.  If you have or can get citizenship in another country, if you're familiar with the language and culture, if you think you'd like to live there for the rest of your life, and if you have resources to get there and establish yourself, then emigration might make sense. If you leave the U.S. after you get an induction notice, you risk prosecution if you ever come back.  What About Deferments?  To get a deferment you must register, notify Selective Service whenever you move, and then apply for a deferment within a few days of receiving your induction notice. By applying for a deferment, you admit you received the induction notice, which will make it harder to wean in court if you later decide to refuse induction.  If you're opposed to all war you might qualify as a conscientious objector , although you'd still have to do alternative service. There are several other deferments, but very few people will qualify for them. (Students are not exempt from the draft or likely to be deferred.) If you plan to try for a deferment, you should talk to a draft counselor now . Once draft notices go out, there won't be enough time or enough draft counselors.  Why Break The Law?  People resist the draft for many reasons . If you're healthy and can't qualify as a conscientious objector, breaking the law is probably the only way you can avoid being drafted.  The most useful thing you can do today to to keep from being drafted is to organize against the draft ! Members of Congress are worried about the domestic unrest a draft will provoke -- and if the price looks too high, they won't dare try to draft you or anybody else.  If enough of us resist now , no one will be drafted.  Download this leaflet as a 2-sided 1-sheet PDF.             What to do? | Why? | Women | History | Prosecutions  Home | About | Blog | Leaflets | Posters | Links   Resisters.info  MedicalDraft.info  Hasbrouck.org                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The Balance         What You Need to Know About the U.S. Military Draft    Menu        Search            Go            Go      Personal Finance    Budgeting    Retirement Decisions    Home Buying    Credit & Debt    View All       Money Hacks    Contests    Frugal Living    Freebies    Couponing    View All       Your Career    Job Searching    Management & Leadership    Human Resources    Career Planning    View All       Small Business    Small Business    Online Business    Entrepreneurship    Business Law & Taxes    View All       Investing    Investing for Beginners    Stocks    US Economy    Mutual Funds    View All                        US Military Careers        Joining the Military      Military Branches      Military Jobs      Military Pay & Benefits      Military Retirement      Military Family Programs      Military Publications      Wars and Deployments      Military Shopping      Military Jokes & Humor      Military Justice      Military Bases      View All           US Military Careers   Joining the Military   What You Need to Know About the U.S. Military Draft   United States Selective Service System       Share       Flip       Pin       Share       Email          •••  The military draft lottery system.
sss.gov     By  Rod Powers    Updated February 14, 2018   The Armed Forces of the United States maintain their readiness through voluntary enlistment, but the law requires young men to register through the Selective Service System. This allows a draft to be activated if needed, as was used during the Vietnam War. The draft was not used for the Gulf War or the War on Terrorism. The information below is available in more detail at Selective Service System .         Who Must Register With the Selective Service System? Almost all male U.S. citizens, and male aliens living in the U.S., who are 18 through 25, are required to register with the Selective Service as imposed by the Military Selective Service Act Even non-citizens must register if they are not in the U.S. on a valid student or visitor visa or part of a diplomatic or trade mission. Selective Service does not collect or share information on immigration status. Undocumented as well as legal permanent residents must register if they came to the country before their 26th birthday. Dual nationals must register. If you are hospitalized or incarcerated, you don't have to register until you are discharged, if you are still below the age of 26. If you are disabled, you must still register if you can leave your home and move about independently. Transgender rules: If you were born female and had a gender change, you don't have to register. If you were born male and had a gender change, you must register.   Women and people born female are not required to register, but that can be changed if Congress changes the law. There is no exemption for only sons, last son to carry the family name or sole surviving sons . What Is the Draft? President Franklin Roosevelt signed the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 which created the country's first peacetime draft and formally established the Selective Service System as an independent Federal agency.         Even before this, our country has a long history of drafting citizens to serve in the armed forces. From 1948 until 1973, during both peacetime and periods of conflict, men were drafted to fill vacancies in the armed forces which could not be filled through voluntary means. The draft ended in 1973, and the U.S. converted to an all-volunteer military. The registration requirement was suspended in April 1975. It was resumed again in 1980 by President Carter in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Registration continues today as a hedge against underestimating the number of servicemen needed in a future crisis. The obligation of a man to register is imposed by the Military Selective Service Act. The Act establishes and governs the operations of the Selective Service System. Draft Lottery System After Congress voted and the President signed the law to reinstate the draft,  The selective service would be activated, and they would initiate a draft lottery, which is based on the birth dates of registrants The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) developed a unique random calendar and number selection program for Selective Service. Using this random selection method for birthdays, each day of the year is selected by computer in a random manner, and that date is placed in a capsule and loaded in a large drum on a random basis.         By the same method, numbers from 1 to 365 (366 for men born in a leap year) are also selected in a random fashion, placed in capsules, and the capsules are placed into a second drum. Official observers certify that the capsule-filling and drum-loading were conducted according to established procedures. This certification is secured to each drum; they are sealed and placed in secure storage. Here is how the lottery would work: One capsule is drawn from the drum containing birth dates January 1 through December 31. One capsule is then drawn from the drum containing the sequence numbers from 1 through 365 (366 if the draft will call men born during a leap year) and the date and number are paired to establish the sequence number for each birth date. This is done in full view of all observers, officials, and the media.  Registrants with low lottery numbers are ordered to report for a physical, mental, and moral evaluation at a Military Entrance Processing Station to determine whether they are fit for military service. Once he is notified of the results of the evaluation, a registrant will be given 10 days to file a claim for exemption, postponement, or deferment. The MEPs would then apply a classification to the inductee. Each inductee is classified based on their beliefs and circumstances, determining who is deferred or exempted. Draft Classifications Classifications are only applied once the draft is activated by the Congress and the President. At that time, inductees are assessed and can apply for exemptions, deferments, and postponements from military service. A man may appeal his classification to a Selective Service Appeal Board. Here is a list of some, though not all, current classifications and what they mean: The most common codes are the following 1-A: Available immediately for military service. 1-O: Conscientious Objector 4-F: Not Qualified for Military Service due to medical reasons. For all the codes available to students, religious followers, or other reasons see official Selective Service Page.  All Voluntary Military - How Shortages Are Addressed Without a Draft In an age of no draft, the ways to increase recruiting numbers fall on the addition of bonuses, recruiting incentives, education benefits, and reducing stiff recruiting standards (age, criminal offenses, education standards). In 2005, the Army had a tough four-month period where they missed their monthly recruiting goals, and then their annual recruiting goal by about 8,000 troops. This was because Congress had authorized the active-duty Army to increase by 20,000 troops, and the Army tried to do this all in one year. Instead of a draft, the Army addressed the issue by adding more recruiters, implementing new recruiting incentives , including increasing enlistment bonuses and raising the maximum enlistment age . The Army also accepted more prior service applicants, set higher college loan repayment limits and increased the Army College Fund contributions. The active duty services were able to meet their recruiting goals. Reasons Why A Draft Is Highly Unlikely In The Future Unless it is total World War III, reinstating the draft would have a negative impact on today's military if any immediate impact at all. The draft is not a quick fix. Training Considerations: The Military has been an all-volunteer service of highly-trained professionals who have committed themselves to serving. During that time, the military has dramatically (and successfully!) changed the way it trains and the way it fights. To implement a draft, the military would have to change the entire way the it trains and operates today. No Immediate Answer: It would take 18-24 months to recruit and train draftees and form them into new combat units. Standards Would Drop: With the military composed of volunteers, the services have been able to impose strict qualifications for duty. If we were to reinstate the draft and the military was forced to accept everyone regardless of criminal records, test scores, or medical qualifications, the armed forces would be larger, but less effective. High Costs: We cannot afford to bring even a small percentage of our 18 to 25-year-old population into active duty. Mandatory service would add millions of men to the rolls of what is already the highest military budget in the world. They would have to be trained, fed, clothed, equipped and housed. They would at times require medical attention. Additional barracks would have to be built, plus married soldiers would receive housing allowances.                                           Continue Reading   +                         Who Has To Apply For The Draft?             Army National Call to Service (NCS) Enlistments             Can Foreigners Serve in the United States Military?             How to Join the Army             US Navy Advanced Enlistments Ranks - What You Should Know             Immigrants and Non-Citizens in the US Armed Forces             Here Are Some Enlistment Standards of the United States Military             Want to Enlist in the Air Force? All the Info You Need                  Getting Ready to Serve? Get the ABCs of the ASVAB             Learn About the Military's Delayed Enlistment Program             How Old Can You Be To Enlist In The Military?             Top 10 Lies (Some) Military Recruiters Tell Applicants             Army Raises War Time Age Requirement             Learn the Many Ways to Become a Navy Commissioned Officer             What Happens When You Go To MEPS to Ship Out?             Examples of False Statements on Recruiting Paperwork                    The Balance. Make Money Personal.        Our Best Money Tips, Delivered      Email Address    Sign up       You're in! Thanks for signing up.  There was an error. Please try again.       Stay Connected                                 Personal Finance  Money Hacks  Your Career  Small Business  Investing     About Us  Advertise  Terms of Use  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact                   ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           What are the chances of being drafted in the US Selective Service?    I want to immigrate to the USA. I will most likely get my green card from 21-26 years of age. I know that I will have to apply for selective service and just have a few questions. First, when I get to the age of 26, will I no longer be drafted? Secondly, what are the chances of being selected. And finally, I am in...  show more  I want to immigrate to the USA. I will most likely get my green card from 21-26 years of age. I know that I will have to apply for selective service and just have a few questions. First, when I get to the age of 26, will I no longer be drafted? Secondly, what are the chances of being selected. And finally, I am in no way a fighing person, so will I HAVE to fight if I am selected? Or can I do other duty's, like first aid or driving for the US Armed Forces? Thanks for you help.         Follow      9 answers  9    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Demi Lovato      Jimmy Kimmel      Kim Zolciak      Shohei Ohtani      AARP      Luxury Sedan      Jordan Mailata      Samsung Phone Deal      Bon Jovi      John Cena          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  First, as has been pointed out, there is no draft at present in the US.  Second, if the draft is reinstated, your chances of being drafted pretty much depends on the needs of the military.  I you're drafted, the odds that you'll see combat are rather high. The default service in a draft is Army. And, unless you score incredibly high on the ASVAB, the default job is infantry.  However, you might consider joining another branch... before you're drafted... like the Air Force. Most of the time it's like a civilian job... except that you wear uniform to work. But, unless they're guarding the flight line, I suspect none of them ever touch a weapon after they leave basic training. From what I've heard from guys coming back from the Middle East, their bases are guarded by Marines or Army.  ADDENDA:  "The military is full. They're turning away people." The military is not "full." It's seriously lacking in quality, career-minded personnel. Were that not the case, they would close the recruiting offices, eliminate those ridiculous bonuses, and halt waivers.  They're turning away people because so many of them are uneducated (don't have a high school diploma), too weak (too fat, too out of shape, or have other physical inadequacies), or are too immoral (have criminal records). Not my idea... http://www.sphere.com/2009/11/03/70-perc...   The strength of the military lies in its senior personnel. Too many applicants are only in it for the short term... just long enough to qualify for the benefits... then they're out. In the mean time the senior personnel are getting older and retiring. Some see the quality (or lack thereof) of the kids coming in and are taking early retirement.  "There's no chance the draft will be reinstated." I'm not sure. There seems to be more concern about being drafted recently. While reinstating the draft would likely improve the quality of the military and reduce the cost, I'm unaware of any politician with enough concern for the country to make a move to do so. But, if there's no chance, why the concern?      Source(s):      gugliamo00  · 8 years ago       8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   There's some confusion over what 'the draft' is. It's called "Selective service", and yes, the United States reserves the right to call all fit males ages 18-28 into military service in the event of a national emergency. However at this point it would be political suicide for anything less than foreign soldiers occupying US soil. That said, the selective service registration probably isn't what you think it is. The government already knows who you are, where you live, etc. They have your tax records, voter registration, DMV information, etc. Selective service isn't to "put you in the system". You're already in the system. Selective service registration is just to positively identify you as "John Smith #241" out of all the other John Smiths out there. Will you get in trouble if you don't turn in the card? No. You'd just start getting bombarded with reminder notices to fill out the card and return it every time you did any sort of government registration (vote, DMV, file your taxes, etc). The government only fines the people who refuse to fill out the card. Selective service USED to be about actually putting you in the system, but that was back when computers ran on punch cards. Today it's just a formality because... well... it would cost more money to do away with the system than to just keep it operational. Government bureaucratic agencies are allergic to change.       lilia  · 2 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       There is no Draft right now, so chances are, you will not be selected. When you reach 26, you will certainly not be drafted unless you are some kind of hyperspatial engineer and the government finds itself badly in need of one.  If you are against war, you can apply for Conscientious Objector status, which means you will be given non-combat duties.       HDH  · 8 years ago      2  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       The odds of having a draft ever coming back are about 100,000,000:1.  Why kids always worry about this like it is coming tomorrow is beyond me.  If a draft ever comes back, it will be because tanks are rolling down your neighborhood streets already.  Also, it does not mean that when you get to the age of 26, you can no longer be drafted.  It merely means that if you have not registered by the time you are 26 years old, you forfeit benefits like educational loans.  It is a REQUIREMENT by law that you register for the selective service.  If you want to be a part of this country so bad, then don't start off by breaking the law.  Part of what has made this country endure is that its citizens have been willing to take up arms or do whatever else is necessary to ensure that we continue to exist.  If everyone thought like you and just sucked up all the benefits, but would not give a little sweat and blood to defend the nation, we would have fallen a long time ago.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 8 years ago      5  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Nobody has been drafted in the United States since 1975.       Mark F  · 8 years ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         Every branch of the military is actually turning down people because they're so full. There is absolutely no chance of a draft any time soon.       RiskyBiz  · 8 years ago      6  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       0% chance. The US military, for now, is a voluntary service. If there were another World War, there could be a draft implemented, but your safe for now. ;-)       silentP  · 8 years ago      6  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       If you are NOT willing to fight for the USA, perhaps YOU shouldn't immigrate to a nation full of Patriots!!!       Gabe Gable Jr  · 8 years ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       There is currently no draft       Open  eyes to  Joker’s Lies  · 8 years ago      4  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                  Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Need auto insurance advice?   Masters of marketing online   Looking for a new chandelier?   Interested in dating sites?              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What are the chances of being drafted in the US Selective Service?        What are the chances of the military draft?        US citizenship denied due to non application of selective services?       More questions       I turned 18 20 days ago and my older sister is telling me I need to sign up for selective service?        Selective service ? is it rly needed?          Answer Questions    Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?        I'm going into the marines as an officer. Do they have more freedoms? Do they get to use their own cell phones, housing, and showers?        There is a pin thats about the size of a pencil head that must come out first to release the bolt mecanism?        Is it ok for a 257 lb guy to join the us military?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  12 answers     More questions       Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers      I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                Will There Be A Draft If We Go To War? North Korea's Threats Are Increasingly Foreboding By Kelly Tunney Aug 10 2017 Ian Hitchcock/Getty Images News/Getty Images This week, Americans found out that North Korea had created nuclear weapons small enough to attach to missiles. And in response, President Donald Trump vowed to unleash "fire and fury like the world has never seen" if the country threatened the United States. Given this tension, some people may be starting to wonder what might happen if things escalate into war. And one of those big questions remains: If the United States goes to war with North Korea, would there be a draft ? The most likely answer is no. The last time a draft was enacted in the United States was during the Vietnam War, four decades ago. According to ABC News, the draft was first established in 1940 . It was known as the Selective Training and Service Act. In 1973, it was discontinued, but President Carter reinstated it in 1980. In order for a new draft to take place, Congress would have to pass legislation to authorize a draft and Trump would also have to approve it. Then, a lottery would kick in. According to the Selective Service System, the lottery begins with males turning 20 years old the year the draft is enacted. Then it calls upon males ages 21 to 25. If needed, 18- and 19-year-olds could be drafted last, but it's not a likely possibility. Those who are requested are gathered and evaluated on a mental, physical, and moral basis to see if they are fit for service. Those who pass and do not seek deferment are then inducted into the service. Just because there isn't a need for a draft right now doesn't mean that Americans don't have to register, though. Most American men are required to register for the draft at age 18 through Selective Service. If they don't, they could be disqualified for federal financial aid, citizenship, federal job training, and federal jobs, according to ABC News. Questions about who is eligible for the draft would also arise. Trump recently declared that the U.S. military would no longer welcome transgender Americans . And women are currently not included in the draft. In 2016, the Senate passed a bill for women to register for the draft attached to a spending bill. However, the House of Representatives passed a different version of the bill and former President Barack Obama signed a version of the bill into law that did not include a requirement for women to sign up for the draft, even though the government opened up combat roles to women in 2015. So, if a draft were to take place, it would be for men ages 18 to 25. Dan Kitwood/Getty Images News/Getty Images According to the Selective Service System, a draft is put in place when a crisis occurs that need more troops than the military has volunteers. And nuclear weapons use might negate the need for a draft. The more powerful the weapons countries use to harm one another, the less reason there might be for ground combat and sending Americans out to fight. So, the chance of a draft happening in the case of a war could be low, but there's always a possibility, especially with a president who often declares orders without informing government channels. Homepage career inspo News Entertainment Beauty Fashion Lifestyle Flowcharts Books Tech Food Wellness Features Company About Us Advertise Apps Labs Terms Privacy DMCA Contact Us ® 2018 Bustle                      Member-supported news for Southern California         Close      Member-supported news for Southern California  Listen Live    News       Covering SoCal    Changing Neighborhoods & Affordability    Commuting    Immigration    Infrastructure    Orange County    Public Safety    SoCal Economy    SoCal Politics    The Social Safety Net    Vets    Workplace      Categories    Local    US & World    Politics    Science    Arts & Entertainment    Business    Crime & Justice    Education    Health        Programs       Featured Programs    AirTalk®    FilmWeek    Take Two®    The Frame®      All Programs    Programs A-Z    Program Schedule    Podcasts    Archive      Events       KPCC In Person    KPCC In Person    Upcoming Events    Past Events      Get connected    KPCC Events Newsletter        Support Us       Membership    Become a Sustainer    Become a Member        About sustaining membership    Update your credit card    Member benefits    Ways to Support    Annual Gala      About Us      Connect with KPCC                Contact us    Become a source    Share a news tip    Learn more about us    About KPCC      People    Staff Directory    Executive leadership    Board of Trustees    Regional Advisory Council    Leadership Councils    Careers          @KPCC     KPCC      Donate Now                Donate        Menu     Close      Back          04:23                                               Become a KPCC Sponsor     MORE FROM THIS CATEGORY  Politics         Gov. Brown endorses incumbent Feinstein in US Senate race   April 10, 2018          Watch Live: Mark Zuckerberg faces questions from Senate committees   April 10, 2018          Trump's homeland security adviser resigns day after Bolton takes over   April 10, 2018       POPULAR NOW ON KPCC          The heat of the 90s is alive in Southern California   April 9, 2018          2 LAPD officers injured, suspect killed in shooting after pursuit   April 9, 2018          Who's watching the police? The state of civilian oversight in Southern California   April 9, 2018             Become a KPCC Sponsor      Politics  Here's how a modern military draft would work      Cristine Nguyen (L) and Vince McClure (R) do final checks one one of the Selective Service Systems two draft lottery machines prior to their monthly test. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Vince McClure, a program analyst at the Selective Service, checks on balls marked with birthdates loaded into the draft lottery machine. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      The controller for one of the two draft lottery machines owned by the Selective Service System. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Michael Young (L) and Vince McClure (R), program analysts at the Selective Service, do final checks on the draft lottery machines prior to their monthly test. Jagmeet Mac for KPCC      Rep. Alexander Pirnie, R-NY, draws the first capsule in the lottery drawing held on December 1, 1969.  The capsule contained the date, September 14. Selective Service System         John Ismay  |  October 13, 2015         Listen to story  04:23    Download this story 2.0MB                              Series: The Modern Military Draft     The last American was drafted in 1973, but the country maintains an elaborate infrastructure to re-activate the draft if it's ever needed. However, a lot has changed since the Vietnam War era. As part of the American Homefront project, KPCC reports on the evolving military draft.  Read part two in this series and let us know your thoughts on Facebook or in the comments below!    The military draft, dormant since the early 1970s, is back on lawmakers minds. More women taking combat roles in the services has prompted questions over whether they should also be required to register. But that's not the only way the draft has and could evolve.  First off, the obvious. The last American was drafted in 1973. President Jimmy Carter brought it out of deep freeze in 1981, after the U.S.S.R. invaded Afghanistan, once again requiring "male persons" to register on their eighteenth birthday. But it would basically take a Martian invasion, as Julie Lynn, California Director of the Selective Service joked to KPCC, to actually reinstate the draft.  Nevertheless, the Selective Service continues to be funded at about $23 million a year, and there are about 100 people in the U.S. who's job it is to be at the ready just in case.  Many work at Selective Service headquarters at Arlington, Virginia, which is also home to "The Machine."   Photo: Jagmeet Mac  On a recent Wednesday, Vince McClure, a program analyst at the Selective Service, wheeled it out so our photographer could take a look. The machine is actually two, clear, fish-tank-like hexagons manufactured by Garron, the same company that makes the devices used by a lot of state lottos.  Every month, McClure or one of his colleagues rolls out the machine, boots it up, and makes sure it’d be ready to jump into action, should duty call.  The first machine has white ping pong balls — the “precedence number,” McClure explains. “With numbers from one to 366. And the other has blue balls in it, with the dates of January 1 to December 31.”  Those are the birthdays.  In each machine, the racks drop balls into the tank and they mix, until one rolls into the tube. Each birthday gets paired with a precedence number.  If this were a real draft, the Selective Service would come for 20-year-olds first. So if you’re 20 years old, and your birthday pops up at the same time as precedence number one, that means you.  Next up would be: 21, 22, 23, 24-year-olds.  Then, the 18 and 19-year-olds.  And finally the draft would apply to 25 and 26-year-olds.  If someone is enrolled in an undergraduate degree program at the time they're drafted, the student would be allowed to finish their current semester -- then, they'd have to leave school for induction into the armed forces. But if the student is in their senior year of undergraduate studies at the time they're drafted, they'd be allowed to finish and graduate no matter which semester they're in.  The "student deferments" of the Vietnam era simply do not exist anymore. But local draft boards --there are more than 2,100 of them in 50 states and six territories — would hear requests for exemptions.  Unlike 'draft boards' of old, the local boards' job is not to decide who is drafted but rather to approve or disapprove requests for exemptions and deferments should a draft be held. Any applicant denied a deferment or exemption may appeal to a higher-level 'Area Board' and, above that, to a single 'National Board.'  None of these boards would actually meet in person unless Congress approves "mobilization" of the Selective Service. An agency official noted that the Selective Service's "Mobilization Plan" is unclassified, but nonetheless refused a KPCC reporter's request for the document.  While the boards aren't meeting today, and the agency has yet to be mobilized, the Selective Service does maintain an active lobbying campaign with individual state legislatures across the country.  Whether women would be included in any future draft is up in the air.  This story is a part of the American Homefront Project — a joint effort of KPCC, KUOW and WUNC — reporting on American military life and veterans.  Jagmeet Mac contributed to this report from Arlington, Va.         The best SoCal news in your inbox, daily.  Sign up to get KPCC's Short List newsletter.          Sign up      Related links    Should women be drafted? Congress may have to decide    Is the US all-volunteer military system developing a warrior class?    Panel To Recommend Allowing Women In Combat                                   Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.  blog comments powered by Disqus      KPCC's Politics coverage is a Southern California resource provided by member-supported public radio. We can't do it without you.  Your contributions power KPCC.  Give today.             The Voice of Southern California        Support the voices you trust. Donate now.         Local  US & World  Arts & Entertainment  Crime & Justice  Science  Politics  Health  Business  Education      Take Two  AirTalk  Off-Ramp  The Frame  Program Schedule  Programs A-Z  KPCC In Person  About KPCC  Contact Us  Staff Directory  Careers        News  Programs  Events  Support  About        Our Partners                                    Terms & Conditions  Privacy  Feedback  © 2018 Southern California Public Radio            Play   Pause             /        Download    Mute   Unmute   X                    Stack Exchange Network  Stack Exchange network consists of 173 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.  Visit Stack Exchange                   current community        help  chat    History        History Meta      your communities     Sign up or log in to customize your list.    more stack exchange communities   company blog           Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site     Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have     Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site     About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company     Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us                                Log In  Sign Up           History beta        Questions    Tags    Users    Badges    Unanswered        Ask Question            _  History Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for historians and history buffs. Join them; it only takes a minute:   Sign up    Here's how it works:   Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top         Percentage of the draft pool that were conscripted during WW2 and Vietnam         up vote  9  down vote  favorite  1      During the times of these conflicts I'm pretty sure the eligible ages to be drafted were from 18 - 25. During these times what percentage of US males between those ages were drafted. I'd like to be able to compare the number between WWII and Vietnam.  To put the question in perspective and dumb it down say (obviously false) during WWII the US at the time had 500,000 men between 18 - 25, 400,000 of which were drafted. So 80% of draft eligible males in the US at the time were drafted.    united-states  world-war-two  military  vietnam     share | improve this question      edited Feb 7 at 4:12             asked Apr 8 '14 at 15:48       CSharper   180 1 1 7              2      This issue is made more complicated by the number of men in both conflicts who may have signed up in anticipation of the draft, with the intention of picking a less dangerous fate. – NL7  Apr 8 '14 at 18:21            Another thing to consider - does eligible only mean of draft age , or do you consider males with deferments or exemptions to be ineligible? – Comintern  Apr 8 '14 at 23:23        add a comment |           1 Answer 1     active  oldest  votes            up vote  15  down vote  accepted      Wikipedia's page on conscription actually gives a pretty good breakdown.  In WWII, males between 18 and 64 were required to register, but the selections were limited by executive order on December 5, 1942 from from 21–45 to 18–38. Assuming the citation ( George Q. Flynn, The Draft, 1940–1973 ) is correct, 50 million men from 18 to 45 were registered. The Selective Service statistics page gives the total inductions during WWII as 10,110,104, which would indicate that the percentage would be somewhere around 20% were drafted based on registration.  By the Vietnam war, the draft age had changed to 18-26 by the Selective Service Act. The draft pool was around 27 million (apparently lifted verbatim from a paragraph from this paper ), and per the Selective Service page linked above, there were 1,857,304 inductions during Vietnam.  Note that Morris gives the number as 2,215,000 - this may reflect a difference in start and end dates used but they are fairly close.  This would indicate that roughly 7-9% of the draft pool was conscripted.     share | improve this answer     answered Apr 8 '14 at 23:54       Comintern   5,162 1 15 41              add a comment |            Your Answer            draft saved  draft discarded             Sign up or log in    Sign up using Google   Sign up using Facebook   Sign up using Email and Password        Post as a guest       Name     Email             Post as a guest       Name     Email            discard  By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service .     Not the answer you're looking for?                            Browse other questions tagged united-states  world-war-two  military  vietnam or ask your own question .         asked    4 years ago      viewed     30,135 times       active    2 months ago       Linked     0   Is this list a complete list of US Jewish servicemen in WWII?      Related   9 Founding Fathers and the American Civil War 44 When and how did the USA and the UK become allies? 1 Who were some famous Vietnam War Hawks and Doves? 2 Non-voluntary deferments in WWII? 2 US Congress in WW2 Compared with other legislative bodies 6 How did Japan successfully conquer Vietnam (Southeast Asia) in WW2? 0 What activity would convey the Burma railway & Hanoi Hilton POW project? 4 Before and during WW2, how were war games played? 8 Who advised FDR on foreign policy before and during WWII? 11 Why did the Eastern U.S. population decrease so much during WWII?      Hot Network Questions     Print the Previous Answer!    Evil Campaigns:How to explain the difference between being evil and being a jerk?    Employees are gaming their performance metrics, instead of doing what's best for the company    The meaning of "squishy hand-wringer"    Paths & Wasting Time    What is the most effective use of phoenixes in battle?    New "professional" branding perceived as "dull"    How can I avoid the awkwardness of a returning player who wears a low-cut shirt?    Would being hollow solve the weight problem of giant swords?    Wiping an SSD with Parted Magic seemed too quick    Why was UNIX never backported to the PDP-7?    Why is this shared-neutral wiring bad?    Two lasers between two mirrors    What should I play on a keyboard to accompany singing?    Why was Fleur's little sister Gabrielle even at Hogwarts?    Why don't all objects bounce like rubber balls?    Should I prepare new homework exercises each year?    Is there a way to avoid the recurring cost of microbes, when composting at home?    My contract is expiring and it won't be renewed yet I'm in the midst of a crucial project    Does writing matter a lot in research?    Is the word 'Hitherto' outdated?    How does the title 'The Imitation Game' justify the story of the movie?    When to partition the hard drive?    Why is first order logic not categorical, as Löwenheim-Skolem just reduces the infinity to infinitely countable    more hot questions     question feed             History   Tour  Help  Chat  Contact  Feedback  Mobile     Company   Stack Overflow  Stack Overflow Business  Developer Jobs  About  Press  Legal  Privacy Policy       Stack Exchange Network   Technology  Life / Arts  Culture / Recreation  Science  Other        Stack Overflow  Server Fault  Super User  Web Applications  Ask Ubuntu  Webmasters  Game Development   TeX - LaTeX  Software Engineering  Unix & Linux  Ask Different (Apple)  WordPress Development  Geographic Information Systems  Electrical Engineering   Android Enthusiasts  Information Security  Database Administrators  Drupal Answers  SharePoint  User Experience  Mathematica   Salesforce  ExpressionEngine® Answers  Stack Overflow em Português  Blender  Network Engineering  Cryptography  Code Review   Magento  Software Recommendations  Signal Processing  Emacs  Raspberry Pi  Stack Overflow на русском  Programming Puzzles & Code Golf   Stack Overflow en español  Ethereum  Data Science  Arduino  Bitcoin    more (29)        Photography  Science Fiction & Fantasy  Graphic Design  Movies & TV  Music: Practice & Theory  Worldbuilding  Seasoned Advice (cooking)   Home Improvement  Personal Finance & Money  Academia  Law    more (15)        English Language & Usage  Skeptics  Mi Yodeya (Judaism)  Travel  Christianity  English Language Learners  Japanese Language   Arqade (gaming)  Bicycles  Role-playing Games  Anime & Manga  Puzzling  Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair    more (33)        MathOverflow  Mathematics  Cross Validated (stats)  Theoretical Computer Science  Physics  Chemistry  Biology   Computer Science  Philosophy    more (10)        Meta Stack Exchange  Stack Apps  API  Data  Area 51        Blog  Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn   site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required . rev 2018.4.9.29787       History Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled                  NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.  LEARN MORE »           Sections   Home   Search  Skip to content  Skip to navigation  View mobile version      The New York Times       Opinion | What It Was Like to Be Drafted          Search   Subscribe Now  Log In    0  Settings      Close search   Site Search Navigation     Search NYTimes.com     Clear this text input     Go        https://nyti.ms/2tynqEf      Loading...      See next articles       See previous articles           Site Navigation    Site Mobile Navigation       Advertisement               Supported by     Opinion   What It Was Like to Be Drafted            Marc Leepson     VIETNAM '67  JULY 21, 2017       Continue reading the main story  Share This Page   Continue reading the main story              Photo        The author on duty at the 527th Personnel Service Company.     I was drafted into the Army on July 11, 1967, three weeks after my 22nd birthday. Seemingly within minutes after I’d graduated from George Washington University that May, my draft board in Hillside, N.J., changed my status from II-S (student) to I-A (cannon fodder). During the Vietnam War every male of my generation — all 28 million of us — faced the vexing question of what to do about the draft. During my four years as a deferred college student, every guy I knew had countless conversations about it. In my case, politics had little to do with my avoid-or-submit decision. While I felt the war probably was a good thing (to stem the march of worldwide Communism), I knew that I had options to get out of taking part in the escalating fighting halfway across the world. I remember feeling strongly, though, that I didn’t want to do anything drastic that I wouldn’t have done had there not been a draft — such as faking a medical condition or fleeing to Canada. So in the fall of 1966 I made two halfhearted attempts to avoid the uncertainties of the draft: applying to join the Peace Corps and Air Force Officers Candidate School. After being rejected by both, I submitted to conscription, feeling like a leaf in the wind amid the political hurricane engulfing me and my generation. And so I became one of the more than 228,000 men drafted in 1967. Before the draft ended in 1973, a total of some 1.8 million of us had been conscripted.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   On that Tuesday morning in July, 50 years ago, I packed a small bag and my mother drove me to a public bus stop in Elizabeth, where I took the short ride to the military induction center in downtown Newark. After a bunch of physical and psychological tests, I found myself in a small room with a couple of dozen other guys where we solemnly swore we’d support and defend the Constitution against all foreign and domestic enemies, obey the orders of the president and our officers, and abide by the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Then we piled into a bus in the dark and sped down the New Jersey Turnpike to Fort Dix for basic training.  Continue reading the main story         Advertisement   Continue reading the main story       First came a few days of processing: the haircut (you had to pay the civilian barber), the shots (lots of them), the uniforms (“your waist is kinda big,” a snarky corporal who handed me my fatigue pants said), the aptitude tests, the offers to go to Officer Candidate School or get the enlisted school of my choice, both of which involved more time in the Army than the two-year draft commitment. I decided two years in uniform was plenty for me, even though I would have no control over what job the Army choose for me. Then it was off to basic training, where the screaming drill instructors singled out the drafted guys for the harshest verbal abuse. More than a few times they barked: “Leepson, you better learn the spirit of the bayonet. You’re going to Tigerland” — Fort Polk infantry advanced training in the Louisiana swamps — “and then Vietnam, and the Vietcong are going to shoot you dead your first day in country.” Or words to that effect. I distinctly remember thinking that I’d made the biggest mistake of my young life taking my chances with the draft. I survived the eight weeks of basic, shedding 25 pounds in the process. Then came the day in early September when I received orders for advanced training. I marched from our company area to some office building at Dix with a few of my basic buddies. We sat down in a classroom. A clerk handed out our personnel files. He said, “Men, do not open your 201 Files.” Every one of us immediately did, knowing we would find our fate inside the manila folder. It was the first time I’d seen an Army order, complete with a confusing series of coded numbers and mysterious abbreviations. Then I noticed a line underlined in red pencil: my name, rank and service number and the words assigning me for training in MOS 70A-10. The only MOS (military occupational specialty) we knew was 11B, infantryman. I signaled to the clerk. “What’s 70A-10?” I asked him. He replied with these exact words: “Same as me, clerk.” Clerk school. Not Tigerland. I wouldn’t get killed my first day in Vietnam. A get out of jail free card. I’ve never felt anything like the shock and euphoria of that moment in the half-century that has whizzed by since that moment.  Newsletter Sign Up  Continue reading the main story  Subscribe to the Vietnam ’67 Newsletter  This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.     Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.  Invalid email address. Please re-enter.  You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.     Sign Up         You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.       Thank you for subscribing.  An error has occurred. Please try again later.  You are already subscribed to this email.  View all New York Times newsletters.    Manage Email Preferences  Not you?  Privacy Policy  Opt out or contact us anytime      The next day the Army shipped me to Fort Leonard Wood in the Missouri Ozarks, a.k.a. “Fort Lost in the Woods” and “Little Korea.” Most of the other guys in my training company had joined in order to get clerk school. About a dozen of us had been drafted and won the clerk school lottery. Four of the guys had just graduated from Southern Illinois University and had had basic at Leonard Wood together. They welcomed me into their college-guy clique.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   We laughed our way through the eight weeks of training, calling the barracks “the dorm,” the base “the campus” and the mess hall “the cafeteria.” When clerk school ended on Nov. 14, 1967, every one of us received orders for Vietnam. What I remember most during my 30-day leave is how awkwardly uncomfortable my college friends were when they realized I was heading for the war zone. The most common refrain was an embarrassed, “Well, at least you’ll get to see the Bob Hope Christmas show.” I didn’t. My parents dropped me at Newark Airport when my leave was up for a commercial flight to San Francisco, where I was to report to the Oakland Army Base, the giant out-processing center for troops going to Vietnam. I have no memory of that flight or the night I spent in a hotel room in San Francisco or how I got to Oakland. I must have taken a taxi. But I vividly remember the very long day I spent out-processing. I met up with my buddy Vito Lanza, and a couple hundred of us went through out-processing, then spent the night on cots in a giant room; it felt like a soulless airplane hangar with buzzing fluorescent lights. Early the next morning, Dec. 14, 1967, we piled into buses for the ride to nearby Travis Air Force Base, then boarded leased commercial jets (with flight attendants and airline food — but no booze) for the trip to the war zone. First stop: Anchorage. We deplaned for a few hours. I remember it was warmer in Alaska than it had been in San Francisco. Then something like an 18-hour flight crossing the International Date Line over the Pacific Ocean to Tachikawa Air Base in Japan for a short layover. Then on to Vietnam. After deplaning at Bien Hoa Air Base, near Saigon, we were herded onto buses for the drive to the giant 90th Replacement Battalion not far away at Long Binh, where we would be assigned to our units. My only memory of the bus ride was that it was oppressively hot and humid, and that Vietnam smelled like raw sewage. Vito got his assignment (to Long Binh) right away, but I spent four long days at the 90th at Long Binh Post, rumored to be the largest American Army base on the planet. We were put in rudimentary barracks, then marched to a few orientation sessions. “Men, you may have heard that most of the prostitutes in Vietnam have some kind of venereal disease,” the guy giving the V.D. lecture said. “That’s not true — they all do.” I believe he recommended a body condom — but that may be a false memory. We also filled sandbags and did guard duty (without weapons). Mostly, though, we had to endure three shipping formations each day held on a giant parade ground, listening for our names to be called on a muddy loudspeaker by a guy on a high wooden platform. He began with words I can still hear: “The following individuals are assigned to ...,” and then he’d call out a place name or a unit.   Advertisement   Continue reading the main story   We lined up single file by flight. As names were called, the lines shrunk. After enduring four days of shipping formations, the line of my flight was down to me and four or five other guys. Then I heard my name over the loudspeaker. I would be going to a place I’d never heard of, Qui Nhon (we pronounced it Quin-YON), with a handful of other newbies.   We did a hurry-up-and-wait, sitting with our duffel bags alongside an Army truck at Long Binh, before the short ride back to Bien Hoa. Just as we were about to march up the back loading ramp of a C-130 Hercules, a small Army truck pulled up and drove in, along with about two dozen South Vietnamese Army troops. Then we clambered on board. All the seats (plastic webbed ones fastened to the sides of the plane) were taken, so I flew to Qui Nhon sitting on a truck fender in the belly of a C-130. It seemed perfectly normal. Five months after being drafted, on Dec. 19, 1967, I reported for duty at the 527th Personnel Service Company. I worked in the personnel management section as a redeployment clerk. For the next 12 months I sent people home from the war.   Marc Leepson is the author of nine books, most recently “Ballad of the Green Beret: The Life and Wars of Staff Sergeant Barry Sadler.” He edited Webster’s New World Dictionary of the Vietnam War and is the arts editor and a senior writer and columnist for The VVA Veteran, the magazine of the Vietnam Veterans of America.  Subscribe to the Vietnam &apos;67 newsletter .  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter .    Continue reading the main story        We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.                                     Vietnam '67  Historians, veterans and journalists recall 1967 in Vietnam, a year that changed the war and changed America.          The End of South Vietnam  MAR 30         Was the Vietnam War Necessary?  MAR 29         How Vietnam Broke the Democratic Party  MAR 28         My Vietnam War  MAR 27         Why Were the Russians in Vietnam?  MAR 27        See More »         What's Next    Loading...               Go to Home Page »   Site Index   The New York Times       Site Index Navigation    News    World    U.S.    Politics    N.Y.    Business    Tech    Science    Health    Sports    Education    Obituaries    Today's Paper    Corrections      Opinion    Today's Opinion    Op-Ed Columnists    Editorials    Op-Ed Contributors    Letters    Sunday Review    Video: Opinion      Arts    Today's Arts    Art & Design    Books    Dance    Movies    Music    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Television    Theater    Video: Arts      Living    Automobiles    Crossword    Food    Education    Fashion & Style    Health    Jobs    Magazine    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Real Estate    T Magazine    Travel    Weddings & Celebrations      Listings & More    Reader Center    Classifieds    Tools & Services    N.Y.C. Events Guide    Multimedia    Photography    Video    NYT Store    Times Journeys    Subscribe    Manage My Account    NYTCo      Subscribe   Subscribe    Home Delivery     Digital Subscriptions     Crossword      Email Newsletters    Alerts    Gift Subscriptions    Group Subscriptions    Education Rate      Mobile Applications    Replica Edition          Site Information Navigation    © 2018 The New York Times Company    Home  Search  Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com . We would love to hear from you.  Contact Us  Work With Us  Advertise  Your Ad Choices  Privacy  Terms of Service  Terms of Sale     Site Information Navigation   Site Map  Help  Site Feedback  Subscriptions                     