This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Navy SEALs  U.S. Air Force  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Navy (USN)  U.S. Army  United States Armed Forces  Probability (statistics)  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of me dying in different branches of the armed forces? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 19 Answers   Eric Tang , Officer at U.S. Army Answered Feb 27, 2012 · Upvoted by  Paul Frick , Former infantry Staff Sergeant, United States Marine Corps. 3 combat tours, 3 years as an Embassy G… and  Stephen Adams , U. S. Army, Infantry, Drill Sergeant, NCOIC Ft Lee Ops & Trg · Author has 376 answers and 2m answer views Whether or not you get deployed into a war-zone plays a large role in probability of death. I'm assuming you indeed are interested in probability of death in a war-zone. Let me use the Iraq War as a case study. Let me start with this: as a whole, you are 2.5 times more likely to die as a US military member than as a healthy, young civilian in the United States (Preston and Buzzel, 2007). Let's break this down further. There are many factors that contribute to risk of death. According to a study conducted by Preston and Buzzel in 2007, the following factors significantly affect risk of death: (1) branch of service, (2) component of service, (3) rank, and (4) age and sex. I will break down each of these four factors in the following paragraphs. 1. Branch of Service . Branch of service is broken down into Army, Marines, Air Force, and Navy (the Coast Guard was not included in this study). If you are a Marine, you are 2 times more likely to die compared to the Army, 10 times more likely to die when compared to the Navy, and 20 times more likely to die when compared to the Air Force. In fact, if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. 2. Component of Service. This pertains to whether or not you are in Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard. Death rates for Active Duty Army soldiers are 3 times more than Reserve Army soldiers. Army National Guard has an intermediate risk of death. Marines have a high risk of death regardless of component. 3. Rank. Enlisted men have 40% higher mortality rates than Officers. There are exceptions to this though. Army Lieutenants have a 19% higher mortality rate compared to all Army troops combined. Marine Lieutenants have a 11% higher mortality rate compared to all Marines. 4. Age and Sex. Younger military personnel have a higher chance of dying. Males are 5.5 times more likely at risk of dying compared to females. It's interesting to note that Marines are disproportionately young. 64.7% of Marines deployed to Iraq were aged 24 and younger, compared to the Army's 39.5% To sum everything up, if you're young, male, a Marine, and enlisted, you have the highest chance of dying. If you're a young male in the Army or Army National Guard, you have a moderate chance of dying. If you're in the Air Force or Navy, you have a low chance of dying. If you are female, you have a lower chance of dying. I hope this answer paints a clear picture for you. 317.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? Ask New Question Quora User Answered May 20, 2015 · Author has 191 answers and 112.4k answer views I think that it's more dependent on who you're at war with than what branch you're in. I mean, on the surface you would think that infantry, marines, they would get mowed down.  And generally they do, not the supply clerks and nurses, but grunts that didn't do to great on the asvab. Then, what about these modern wars where you're fighting among these lands that have been redirected to go through another pre-industrial age?  If you're in the Navy and not a bomber pilot, you're probably not going to get killed.  It's the twenty year old running around the depleted uranium-saturated streets that's going to get it. So, what if it's not war with the peasants?  In the World Wars whole ships filled with people in the Navy were killed at once.  The United States built Liberty Ships, shitty, low-quality, high-volume pigs that planners assume would be sunk in vast quantities.  There were no illusions. In fact, I've read that if you were in one of the countries involved in the European theater, it wasn't a bad idea to be in the ground forces because there all the civilians were getting vaporized, blown to bits, and incinerated too. Of course, if we went to war with Russia then a majority of officers flying an F-22 would not come back.  All of them flying a JSF-35 (is it in service?) would be dead.  Possibly all the Air Force guys at bases where they're launching F-22's would be bombed and strafed after all the F-22's had been blown out of the sky.  Maybe the infantry guys would get together with the Russian guys and watch the mess play out above.  "How long did yours go to college?  Ours are there for four years." And the Navy at war with Russia... everyone on those aircraft carriers would be a bit more nervous than when it's the peasant opposing force. So: Peasant enemy, combat MOS infantry and Marines.  Second world enemy, Navy sailors and officers alike and Air Force officers. Disclaimer: I know, we're not really fighting peasants.  We're just weaving in and out of peasants where the bad guys are hiding, dressed as peasants.  I mean no offense by pointing out the difference between a peasant army and a big army that is wearing matching costumes. 21.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Deborah Gahm , Mil spouse for over 20 years Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 771 answers and 1.1m answer views I have to agree with Gary Leverich .  You are more likely to die due to accidents (including drunk driving) than combat. According to the latest statistics I could find: In 2009, there were 1,519 active duty deaths.  The highest percentage of those deaths were due to accidents, 28.5 per 100,000.  They do not differentiate between alcohol related accidents and normal accidents.  21.5/100,000 were due to hostile actions. There were about 1.6 million active duty members that year. For comparison, an average of 1,825 college students die each year from only alcohol related incidents alone. Active Duty Military Death Rates Per 100,000 Serving National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) 103.2k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Allen Inks , former Electrician's Mate First Class - EM1 (SS) at United States Navy (1972-1980) Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.5m answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? EDIT: The question changed; it originally was asking about survival chances in various military branches if “war broke out in the US”. I’ve not got enough time to change the answer to fit the new question. Okay, “War broke out in the US” is kind of vague. Do you mean A) civil war , for example, another civil war between Republicans and Democrats? Do you mean B) war with a foreign power inside the US, as in Canada and Mexico go in cahoots to attack and invade the US? Or do you mean C) nuclear war, as in one of the Kims fulfills the dynasty’s self-destructive tendencies, and launches several nuclear missiles at the US, which in turn, turns that failing country into a nice pristine glass parking lot for KIA and Hyundai factory overflow - which in turns results in some further nuclear missile strikes against the US from another country…who shall remain nameless? Note that I am assuming that option A is non-nuclear - though sometimes from the rhetoric from the far right and the far left, I’m not sure. I wish everyone would just wise up, vote Libertarian, and leave the Democratic and Republican parties on the ash heaps of history, but … I digress. A) In the case of a civil war, I will assume that the main purpose of the Republican and Democratic Navies will be to blockade the coasts of the land held by the other side, and to break the Naval blockades of the other side. I expect that the naval nuclear weapon assets controlled by each side will be sent to far-flung bases to wait out the war, and that we will be smart enough (or at least military leaders will be… I can’t vouch for ANY of the politicians) to not target things like nuclear weapons storage facilities, Minuteman missile silos, or nuclear power plants. The Air Force, Army and Marines will likely be highly involved. Likewise, Coast Guard highly involved doing blockade work (but lacking subs or significant anti-submarine capability, will mostly be targets for submarines). Best bet for survival: Navy. B) In the case of invasion by the frozen Canadians and the highly motivated Mexicans (NOTE TONGUE FIRMLY IN CHEEK - this is hypothetical and I’m just teasing our friends across the borders - actually, I know of at least 4 Canadians who are partially defrosted.) Again, I would expect the Army and Marines to be highly involved in repulsing those dastardly foes from our hallowed soil. Lots of bullets flying on all three sides… The Air Force should be flying tactical support for our ground troops… but by this time will probably have retired the A-10 (not sexy enough a mission for the Generals), so they will be flying F-35s and F-22’s to gain air superiority, and finding out that the F-35 makes a shitty replacement for an A-10. Hopefully, the Marines will have plenty of their planned V-22 Osprey gunship variants to augment Army helicopter crews to support the ground pounders. The Air Force will also be using B-52s that are on Medicare and collecting Social Security to support the troops using smart bombs, and using B2’s to bomb Ottawa, Mexico City, and other strategic location… but sparing important cultural sites like Senor Frog’s in Los Cabos. The Coast Guard….guarding the coasts to prevent opening a third or fourth front…likely, not too too involved. Maybe some riverine warfare. Navy…. using aircraft carriers to assist our North American Free Trade partners that they really want to go back home, or there won’t be a home to go back to. Best bet for survival: Coast Guard… followed by Navy. C) Multiple Exchange Massive Nuclear war: Substantially everybody dies. Best bet for being amongst the last to die: Submarine crew (Navy) or Minute Man Missile launch officers (Air Force). My best guess would be the Navy would be the last to go… more mobility to avoid fallout (authority for this “guess” - “On the Beach” (book or movie)). My advice re nuclear weapons sounds just like Nancy Reagan’s advice on drugs, “Just Say No”. Funny coming from a guy who spent 4 years living amongst 16 thermonuclear tipped SLBMs, doing his part to make sure my sub was ready when the call came, right? Nope… not funny. 27.9k Views · View Upvoters   Riccardo P , studied at University of Zurich Answered May 25, 2017 Eric Tang answered this question and got a lot of upvotes. He wrote: “[…] if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. […]” Really man??? Eric, I really have nothing personally against you or anyone else that wrote something similar here, but honestly, this is one of the most misleading statements I ever heard/read. Please STOP fooling young people with this kind of statements. It highly suggest to enroll in Military because you may apparently live longer! But this is very obviously big b#$@=%÷! To enroll in Military means (1.) to become a killer and (2.) to be exposed to a much higher probability to die young if you are sent to a war zone. How much higher the probability is, is less important in my opinion. But it certainly is higher if you “play around” with arms. I mean, even the government tells you not to travel in war zones . Why? Because it is dangerous. You could die. Higher risk to die. I would really not trust any statistics that suggest that the probability to die is lower if you enroll yourself in Military. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Gary Leverich , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout · Author has 472 answers and 2.9m answer views Combat is of course risky.  But most of the military never sees actual combat, they serve in support roles.  Even support roles carry their own level of risk.  Advanced weaponry is designed to take out support functions.  So working on an airfield well away from actual combat still carries a level of risk.  Other than combat, the highest cause of death in the military (all branches) is alcohol.  I was stationed with the 101st Airborne Division.  That division has a sign at the front of the base (at least used to) counting the days since the last alcohol related traffic death.  If we made it 101 days, we would get a day off.  We rarely made it 101 days. In 15 years of service, including 6 years in the Marine Corps with 2 combat deployments, and 9 in the Army with one peacekeeping mission, I lost 1 soldier.  That's because he wrapped his car around a tree after a weekend binge. 44.9k Views · View Upvoters   Daniel Kearns , former Paratrooper 82nd Airborne at U.S. Army Answered Mar 25, 2013 · Author has 1k answers and 4.8m answer views Generally, it matters not which branch you pick. What matters is what job you pick in that branch. Known as an MOS (Military Occupation Specialty), some are much more dangerous than others. For example, 11B Infantry is an MOS in the US Army that would be considered much more dangerous than say 36B Financial Management Technician.  There would be very few, (read: no), instances where a 36B might see combat. In todays US Army, virtually every Regular Army 11B will see some variation of combat at some point. Every US Military Branch has jobs known as Combat Arms.  These jobs will always be more dangerous than Support jobs. 36k Views · View Upvoters   Clell Harmon , Retired USN. Career SSBN Sailor Answered Jul 6, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout and Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 817 answers and 2.4m answer views In my experience, the leading cause of death among service members, is being stupid. Young men, no matter how intelligent they are, are prone to being stupid.  The proximity of other young men amplifies stupidity. Youtube is proof of this, but it existed long before anyone thought about putting videos on the internet. Take poorly maintained cars, an idiot behind the wheel looking to impress his passengers, lubricate with a bit of alcohol and you get dead people. I was in the Navy for more than 20 years. In my time in service, I buried five of my shipmates because of auto accidents.  None to combat, one to catestrophic equipment failure on a Submarine, two to drowning (one 'on duty' and one from being stupidly drunk and finding a rip current), and one to an undiagnosed aneurysm that burst when we were underway. 22.5k Views · View Upvoters   Rachel Bolyard , World traveler, appreciator of well built things Answered May 5, 2017 · Author has 260 answers and 199.2k answer views Your chances of dying in an auto accident are like 2000x higher than dying in any modern combat scenario. You're literally safer in a war zone than driving yourself out for dinner tonight. 30k people die per year in the US driving and 14 soldiers died in combat in 2016. Most jobs in the military, even if you're in a combat zone, don't involve shooting. You may end up with some convoy duty, which is by far the most risky thing to do, because a) it's driving and military vehicles are top heavy, rolling over and killing their operators routinely in training or combat, and b) convoys are symbols of power and occupation therefore insurgents like to target them. Training fatalities in the armed forces are in the hundreds per year per force. The Navy is probably the most dangerous because they have the most machinery and moving parts. Still though, from the stats, you're still safer serving than driving… 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jatavius Williams , Been an United States Army Drill Sergeant For 13yrs Now. Answered Apr 6, 2016 Son there are NO CHANCES in the art of fighting for your country. Each branch is fighting forr the same purpose and that purpose is most likely to fight for freedom. If you get shot were going to call "Medic!,Medic!" If the Medic is down "Carl! Carl! Get On The Radio" If that Happens Thats your Ass son. 7k Views · View Upvoters   Luke Han , Student Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 147 answers and 272.6k answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? The Coast Guard operates under the U.S Department of Homeland Security during peacetime, but can be transferred to the U.S Department of the Navy by Congress or the President. But it is technically part of the military. The Coast Guard would probably be your best bet. In World War II, 241,093 people served in the Coast Guard. Out of the 241,093 people that served, 574 died in action. That’s literally a 0.2% death rate, almost non-existent. However, if we don’t consider the Coast Guard as part of the military, Air Force and Navy would probably be your best bet, especially the Air Force. 10.7k Views · View Upvoters   Christopher Sullivan , works at U.S. Army Answered Jan 25, 2016 · Author has 294 answers and 87.2k answer views It depends on your MOS and where you are deployed to. Then there is the unit to consider, if you have tools for leadership and your unit is completely ate up, chances are high even if you're in a relatively quiet area. If you're unit is on point, then you're chances of survival are pretty high even if you're hell so to say. 8.8k Views · View Upvoters   Gordon Wilson , studied at Florida Southern College Answered May 22, 2015 If you are not alright with risking your life do not go into the military.  No matter what job you do there is danger.  You can die in training... happens all the time.  My father was a pilot and lost a couple friends just in training exercises (faulty equipment, communication errors, etc)  All of the services may be at risk at some point.  So if you are not prepared for the danger of being in the armed forces I would not suggest it.  I would say your best bet would be to be a doctor but even then the base you are stationed at if during time of war could be bombed.  I know a buddy from high school who died in an accident during an Army training exercise.  I think the vehicle flipped or something.  So yeah you could die at anytime if you're in the armed forces.  That is part of the job description.. you might die. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters   Ashleigh Jennings Answered Mar 16, 2013 well, i suppose its half luck half ability. if you were to join the army, you could be put anywhere, meaning that you could be dropped in a high combat area, where you are more likely to be hit. if you were to join the air force, you could be sitting at a desk finding targets, or in a plane potentially getting shot at. in the navy the boat could sink, and as a marine the odds of you dying anywhere is quite high... hope this helps. 6.5k Views · View Upvoters   Eliel Wu Answered Jan 20, 2016 Stats says you guys are wrong, the most dangerous branch to be in is the U.S Army. U.S Army 4,358 12-18 month deployments 3 month stand down and redeploys marines 1,394 6-7 month deployments 6 month stand down and redeploys The U.S Army has a large number of soldiers deployed in theater but only a small percentage in combat, the large number are none combat oriented whose job is to keep most of the bases running regardless of branch. If you want the hard and tough missions where your life is at risk the highest than join the Army. If you are looking for glory based on your branch, uniform appearance and what boot camp was like than the marines is for you. M M 7.8k Views · View Upvoters   Asa Waters , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Jul 21, 2015 http://www.nytimes.com/interacti... Army has the most deaths, basically 3 of every 5 people killed in combat is army, followed by Marines, navy and air force. In over 10 years of combat there's about 2000 deaths as of this article... Odds of dying are slim regardless. 943 Views   Jervis Fitzroy , lives in Northern Ireland Answered Feb 16, 2017 · Author has 988 answers and 196k answer views If you’re really bothered about it join the Chaplain’s Department. At least you’ll be well connected if you become one of the small number of Padres who have been killed in combat. 541 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at U.S. Army Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 155 answers and 119.6k answer views Depends on the nature of the war and where it's fought as well as against who. A ground war into China would not bode well for the Infantry and other guys on the ground however that's a total different proposition if you're asking us to take down some African Warlord. Same goes for air infiltrating Russian air Defence system would be a much greater undertaking then performing the same Mission in Africa. So it's all about what type of War being fought at that moment the capabilities of the enemy and the different Specialties that are most affected when adding that up. 556 Views · Answer requested by  Raulon Van Tassell   Stefan Johansson Answered Aug 26, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.7k answer views If you're worried of death,don't join the military. 521 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? How do I choose between the four branches of the US armed forces? Is ROTC considered a branch of the armed forces? Why do all branches of the United States Armed Forces have snipers? What is the safest major branch of the US armed forces? What branch of the U.S. Armed forces gets deployed most often? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Infantry  U.S. Army  Military What are the chances of me dying by joining the army infantry in the current war climate? I’m considering the 3 year contract. Update Cancel ad by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 9 Answers   Victor Egorov , former Fort G Meade at U.S. Army Answered Oct 24, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies and  MIke Gentile , former Veteran  at U.S. Army (1988-1992) · Author has 596 answers and 807.5k answer views Your chances of becoming a casualty are quite low. I would not agree with with some of the other answers here and claims that “you have a higher chance to die in car crash” - this simply is not true. -So 3 year contract. -Infantry -Situation similar to last decade and a half of Iraq/Afghanistan proportions, in short an insurgency war. Off the bat, in three year congract you should only have enough time to train, get to your unit, deploy one time( 12 months) I’m using approximate numbers as I recall these to be during my time in the service. please find it within yourself to not argue or correct me on every number I chose to use for this approximation. For a war time statistic of active combat action and hostility we could take a situation that I recall being off and on a norm 2005 -2012. So among a force of 100,000 US military Service members deployed 50 are KIA a month. Some months have been better some have been worse. A low 20/30-for a slow month, while on a bad month 100+ ) In addition each month could have 100 more experience loss of limb, severe burns, loss of cognitive function/brain damage, spinal cord injury, complete loss of eye sight… life changing injuries. Plus another 200 service members are wounded to various lesser degrees. These injuries and deaths mainly distributed among combat arms soldiers. Infantry, light mechonised, MPs, combat engineers( route clearance) EOD, JSOC units. Realistically about 30,000- 40,000 out of total troop strength would sponge up most of the casualties and injuries. Let’s say 2/3s of it. So out of 100,000 with focus on 30,000 that have spent a year in combat zone as combat arms soldiers during war time mission 50*(2/3)*12 = 400 would be KIAs 100*(2/3)*12 =800 gravely injured 200*(2/3)*12=1600 non life changing injury( gunshot, concussion, loss of fingers,partial eyesight) While the other 1/3 of deaths and injuries will distribute among cooks, supply, air assets, medics, admin, engineers, mechanics, and on. So, just to ballpark on a single 3 year contract with a 12 month deployment into an active combat zone as we have witnessed over last decade and a half: You have about 1- 1,2% chance of loosing your life. 2–3% chance of being gravely injured. 4–7% of being wounded. So it’s a little above national highway injury statistic but it’s not terribly bad either. All and all your chances of getting “fucked up bad” are below 5% Getting “Hurt” are below 7% On back end, I’d recommend looking up monthly stats for suicides among US combat veterans… it’s somewhat high and troubling. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by LendingTree Veterans could receive up to $42,000 with these VA benefits. Many American veterans are missing out on benefits that could save them thousands. Learn More at lendingtree.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? Ask New Question   Matt Blackshaw , Professional Dog Walker Answered Nov 1, 2017 If you join any of the Armed forces regular or reserve you should make a conscious decision that your commitment will place you in dangerous situations. Combat arms Corps and Infantry in particular are some of the most dangerous trades to be employed in. As a potential candidate for any service you must give serious consideration that your unit and yourself WILL be deployed and you WILL be placed in dangerous situations in training and on operations. Army’s fight wars and wars involve killing the enemy, It's a two sided thing so if you are trying to defeat the enemy the enemy will be trying to defeat you by any means possible including killing you. Its good that you ask this question because it means you are thinking of the consequences of your decision to join the Military and FIGHT. War, Killing, Catastrophic injuries, Suffering and the psychological effects of being exposed to these elements are not subjects recruiters like to embellish during the recruitment process. 2.1k Views · View Upvoters   Jonathan Keiler , Army veteran Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by  Joe Francis , Sergeant in Marine Corps, Officer in US Army, 26 years service · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.8m answer views Joining the Army infantry usually does not cause death. If it did, they would have a hard time maintaining any units at all. The risks of just dropping dead after you join, since you generally have to be young and fit to get in the Army infantry, are also extremely low. In the current climate, the risks of an infantryman being killed in an accident or in combat, are also pretty low. However, that is always subject to change. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Danny Perez , former Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic at U.S. Army (2013-2015) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies · Author has 178 answers and 24.8k answer views IF you get deployed to a combat zone then your chances are just as any. I can’t speak for Infantry. I was a mechanic, a POG. Lol. What I can tell you is that it is a lot different now than it was when the heat of the war had just started. My suggestion, as a POG, lol, join a POG MOS. If you score well enough in your ASVAB you can get more jobs available to you. Just a thought. No soldier is ever safe in a combat zone. There’s always indirect fire coming into the bases no matter how much of a fortified position we have built. 711 Views · View Upvoters   Stefan Johansson Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.7k answer views Dude,if you join the military,you also agree to risk your health and life if necessary. Being a soldier is not just a job,it’s also the pride of serving your country,and if needed die for it. If you’re not mentally prepared for that,stay out of the military forces,go drive a school bus instead…. 501 Views · View Upvoters   Mike Moffatt , Retd. Grandmaster (Military Order) Knights Templar (1988-present) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 265.7k answer views You’ve got more of a chance being injured in a car accident, or being ridden in to by a cyclist than being killed in action. If you constantly worry about dying you’ll never do anything worthwhile in this life. 803 Views · View Upvoters   John Phillips , worked at U.S. Army Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 1k answers and 575k answer views 100% What ever your focus is, is your target. Death finds those that seek it. I do not want anyone dragging death to the battle. I want them to fight, and claw, and scream, kick, gouge, punch, whatever it takes. I want life. You bring that bastard with you, the Drills will see it. You will not make it through training. They will kick your narrow ass, chicken shit, death dragging self out. No one, and hear this carefully, no one will tolerate the talk of death. Death is always close. In battle, and in training, he is fed enough. The gates of Hell and Heaven are a damn freeway because of the wars. I have a daughter that has never seen peace. And now I answer a person about death. I hope, have never seen death. If so, then you understand all of this. 552 Views · View Upvoters   Yash Mor , studied at Rashtriya Military School - Bangalore (1981) Answered Oct 22, 2017 · Author has 191 answers and 35.2k answer views You may have higher chances of dying in road accident or due to a natural or man made catastrophe. Please don't even plan to join the Indian Army as it may not select people with negative attitude in life. 511 Views · View Upvoters   Prajakta , B.com Accounting and Taxation & Financial Markets, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar (2015) Answered Oct 22, 2017 You are already dead considering what you’ve asked. But anyways, don’t consider joining it. Army wouldn’t need you. 412 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Can you get into the infantry in your army contract? Can Egyptian women join the Egyptian Army infantry? If not, then what unit can they join? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units in Germany? What are the chances I would see combat if I joined the army infantry in 2018? Are we going to enter into World War 3 in 2017? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Combat  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Armed Forces  Death and Dying  Personal Question If I join the Marines will I probably get killed? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 14 Answers Quora User , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Nov 21, 2015 · Author has 235 answers and 190.1k answer views No, you won't. First I would like to encourage you, if you're serious about joining the Marine Corps, to change that attitude about being killed. "Ready to die but never will," is a motto Marines live by and is fundamental to their success. Marines do not have a defeatist attitude rather possess esprit de corps. This mindset instills the courage Marines use for success in combat. In the current climate of international affairs it is not very likely you will die, but things will change. Your odds of being K.I.A. goes up or down depending on your M.O.S. (your job as a Marine) which may place you in the rear or the first person on the beach. If its the latter, Godspeed! Consider that since March 2003 until October 2015 there have been 4814 deaths during all operations conducted in Iraq, according to http://icasualties.org . This number includes all U.S. forces and allies from other countries such as Britain, Georgia, Canada and others. Joining the military is a big decision to make and requires deep thought especially if your already thinking about being killed. Marines can smell this fear on you and you will have a very unpleasant time in the service if you cannot get squared away. Its a dangerous job and killing is in the job description. There are many dangerous aspects of life but don't let fear of the unknown govern your decisions. Semper fi. 7.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below Should I join the Marines? If so, why? Can you join the Marines with a felony? What should I do before joining the Marines? What kind of people join the Marines? Can you join the Marines with a misdemeanor? Ask New Question   David Condrey , Web Developer, Hacker, Innovator, Photographer, Designer, Biker Answered Oct 31, 2015 · Author has 296 answers and 549.9k answer views Probability of dying in a war.. • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) Your far more likely to die if you are a logger or fisherman or garbage collector or roofing your own house. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Zachary Asa , 5 years enlisted. 2621/2611. HMMWV driver. I know Morse Code. Answered Oct 30, 2015 No. Here's my reasoning; I'll show my math. Probably equals to me (a high probability). I was in the Marines, I didn't die because of it. Most of the people I know (over 99%) didn't die. I know two: Paul - Suicide after one week of Chantix. Daniel - Suicide after getting kicked out for drugs. We all die at some point, and the Marines didn't seem to increase that probability by any amount in my view.  Most of the died in ways normal 18-28 year olds die, self inflicted, drugs, or accidents. Effing morbid man. Let's talk about kittens next time. 5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   John Riggs , General knowledge collector and interested fellow... Answered Oct 30, 2015 · Upvoted by  Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management · Author has 202 answers and 294k answer views Presuming you avoid the usual killers of US Service members: NO  Don't drink and drive, avoid alcoholic benge drinking, avoid high risk activities (sky diving, racing etc) and you like almost all other service members will probably live to complete your enlistment.  In addition you'll have gained education, knowledge and experience that cannot be replicated anywhere else. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Elizabeth Porco , CS masters, hobby artist, spent too much time on the streets of Berkeley and Oakland Updated Jun 22, 2016 · Author has 7.6k answers and 2.1m answer views If you join the Marines or any branch of the military, the most probable outcome is that you will come back alive. Even the Quakers say this. It's true that the Army and Marines are more dangerous than most civilian jobs and that Marine infantry is more dangerous than the rest of the military. However, you likely to spend more time being bored than being under fire in the military. Note: I have edited this to reflect an excellent answer given by an Army officer. Only my lack of skill with the Quora UI prevented me from citing his answer 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Jon Davis , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Updated Oct 16, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views You’ll be fine. Many assume that the only people who would want to join the military, and especially the US Marines, are those who want to die from some car bomb in Iraq. Just as many assume that the majority of us have seen more than we actually have. There is also this myth that we are all just "the lucky few" who survived four years in the middle of some never-ending artillery barrage. The truth is, while there are plenty of risks, which are widely known, you are far safer in the United States military than most would believe possible. For example, what if I told you that only about a quarter of active duty troops every deploy to a combat zone if there is a major war like Iraq going on. Most are stationed somewhere else doing all manner of jobs that have nothing to do with shooting people. What’s more surprising is that even if you do go to war, there is less than a one in a thousand chance that you might actually be killed. Of course, this answer is specific to the Americans. Those that go against us have more grim statistics, naturally. Across the US military, and this is similar for the Marines, the risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11, estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch to be about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660. which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded, then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. For the those not blessed with the ability to conceptualize such things, here's a tasty pie. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to war in Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. This trait, however, isn't anything new. The US military, at least since the dawn of the 20th century and perhaps because of the carnage of our own civil war, have adapted a mentality and strategy that ensures our military does not easily sacrifice its own. We simply have values that don't allow us to experience heavy troop losses and a wealth that affords the ability to win without them. In truth we live today in a time-period where we have proven that experience matters more than assets and that a troop's life is almost always more valuable than the patch of Earth they are fighting for. That's why modern warfare doesn't allow for high losses. Take a look at the figures for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, pulled from Wikipedia. This doesn't include the insurgency years that followed, but showcased the last time we fought a full-on war with an advanced national military. That last statistic is significant. The Coalition's troop strength before the battle was 265,000 troops, mostly from the United States and the UK. The Iraqis' troop level was 1,119,000, more than 4x that fielded by the Coalition. The end result, however, was that through great strategic, technological, and logistical superiority, the American lead Coalition was able to inflict as many as 261 times as many casualties as the Iraqi were capable of delivering in return. That's more than 250 Iraqi killed for every Coalition death. A more lopsided battle has never been fought. Perhaps it is just that we don't fight that much or stay safely behind our big walls. We just send out the evil drones and high powered missiles, snipers, and other cowardly means of fighting a war. Well, given the option... wouldn't you? I know these guys certainly would if given a second chance. A grim look through history will show that American military doctrine has focused on a few key tenets throughout at least the last century. We focus on augmenting our troops through overwhelming technology rather than creating a culture that loves war. The facts are that Americans deeply hate conflict. We will do whatever we can to avoid it on an interpersonal level, regardless of whatever you think about our foreign policy. This is reflected in our demographics. Today, after 13 years of war, and with a sizeable portion of our Vietnam-era veterans still alive, US veterans still only number 22 million individuals and account for less than 7% of the total population. Note, that is veterans , not active service members. The Department of Veterans Affairs projects that that number is set to decrease, not only in percentages, but in real value. They project that by 2043 we will only have 14 million veterans alive for a total percentage of the population at only 3.5%. The decreasing number of veterans means a country culturally disconnected from the realities of its wars because of the peacefulness of the daily lives of its citizens. And that's how we want it. The alternatives are thus: during the Second World War, you saw very different social military philosophies come head to head. Among these were the Americans and the Japanese. The Japanese were fantastic engineers and created marvelous machines. One such was the Zero fighter. It had a turning capability and climb that was far superior to other fighters. It was more agile and a deadly threat. The trade-offs? It's aluminum coating was brittle and the plane offered no armor for the pilot, engine or other critical points of the aircraft. Its light construction also made it prone to catching fire and exploding during combat. Add this to the practice of Japanese fighters on the ground routinely combating US Marines with suicidal "Banzai" charges, the human-wave attack and we see a culture which adopted an ancient form of warfare: the military death cult. Death and the warrior were at that time so intertwined through a perversion of the Samurai Bushido culture that the leadership of Japan could order hundreds of thousands of Japanese to their deaths without the Japanese people resisting at all. This culminated in the ultimate corruption of bravery and honor; the creation of the Kamikaze pilot and the "Baka" Bomb. This is the Japanese Yokosuka MXY-7 Ohka ("cherry blossom"), a rocket-powered parasite aircraft used towards the end of the war. The U.S. called them Baka Bombs ("idiot bombs"). They called it this, because the only intended purpose of the aircraft was to be guided by a pilot to impact directly with an enemy ship by a pilot who had reserved himself to die in the effort. The Kamikaze (Divine Wind) is named for the legendary holy force which protects the Japanese from invasion by outsiders, namely because of a storm which swallowed up tens of thousands of Mongol invaders hundreds of years ago before they ever set foot on Japanese soil. The Kamikaze myth was resurrected for the creation of a force of airmen who volunteered and trained for a mission in which they would surely die, once again, like a storm from Heaven protecting Japan from foreign invaders. So committed were these soldiers and those who commanded them to this idea of a glorious death for their nation and their emperor, they even attended a ceremony before their mission which could only be described as their funeral. In contrast, the American philosophy emphasized an entirely different approach. We preferred to keep our warriors alive, if for no other moral reason than to pass on their experience and be useful on a better day. We engineered fighter aircraft with more power that could give us the strength and survivability to keep fighting. Add to this the individual support given to the individual troop. While the base soldier thrown away during a Japanese suicide charge was said to be worth less than $10 by their own admiralty, the United States Marine, the most underfunded of the military branches, would deploy with supplies of everything from ammunition, food, water, and bandages, to paper and pencils and glass eyes of every imaginable size and color... just in case. This excerpt from Flags of Our Fathers displays in the days and weeks leading up to the Battle of Iwo Jima the American philosophy, strategy, and implementation of sending every man with all the gear to have a dominating edge, and the greatest chance possible of coming home. ... the movement of over 100,000 men, Marines, Navy support personnel, Coast Guard units across 4,000 miles of ocean for three weeks is a triumph of American industry galvanizing itself in a time of great national peril. At the outset of the war, Japan's naval strength was more than double that of America's, but across the American continent, the idling factories steamed and sparked to life. Most of the vessels came splashing off the industrial assembly lines in the six months before this assault... ... And it has not just been a matter of hardware. The civilians of America have mobilized behind these fighting boys. Behind each man on board the ships are hundreds of workers. In the factories, in the cities and towns, on the heartland farms; Rosie the Riveter, boy scouts collecting paper and metal, the young girl who would become Marilyn Monroe, sweating away in a defense plant. Here is some of what those mobilized civilians have generated for this tremendous force: For each of the seventy thousand assault troop Marines 1,322 lbs of supplies and equipment. Some of it sounds weirdly domestic: dog food, garbage cans, light bulbs, house paint. Some of it suggests an island business office: duplicating machines, carbon paper, movie projectors. Some sounds like kids' camping gear: toilet paper, socks, shoelaces, paper and pencils, flashlights, blankets. Some begin to suggest a sterner mission: flares, plasma, bandages, crucifixes, holy water, canisters of disinfectant to spray on corpses. And some of it gets exactly to the point: artillery, machine guns, automatic rifles, grenades and ammunition. The transport ships carry six thousand five-gallon cans of water, enough food to feed the population of Atlanta for a month or the assaulting Marines for two months. The Marines brought along one hundred million cigarettes. This isn't to say our strategy made us invulnerable. We endured great losses to be sure, 19,000 at the Battle of the Bulge, 16,293 at Normandy, 12,513 in Okinawa, and countless other battles throughout the war, totaling around 405,000 dead Americans. While that number is appalling, it pales compared with others. Soviet Union - up to 13,000,000 military dead, Germany - up to 5,500,000, Japan - 2,120,000. These figures do not include civilian dead, of which the United States had virtually none. That said, we dominated the Japanese in World War II once we steadied ourselves from the attack on Pearl Harbor. We suffered 1/24th their total losses in a war they began. The same can be seen in Iraq or Afghanistan and can be seen as well in any major conflict we have been a part of in the last one hundred years. This is because our philosophy wins wars in this modern age. War isn't won by weapons; it is won by warriors. Make the warrior a weapon and give him the tools to succeed and come home, and no other force on Earth can defeat him. Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 3k Views · View Upvoters   Logan Brewer Answered Jan 25, 2016 While you can never rule out the possibility of dying while in the Corps, the odds are in your favor. Far more Marines make it out alive than ones that don't. Their are many variables to this question though. The most important is probably what your military occupational specialty is. Some MOS's are innately more dangerous than others. If you mean to join the infantry, you must not be afraid of death, because there are millions of Americans depending on you to win the fight. 634 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , BS from United States Military Academy (1974) Answered Oct 30, 2015 · Author has 213 answers and 153k answer views "Probably" suggests "more likely than not".  Any military service necessarily involves the "possibility" of dying.  Nobody knows the future and what situations may arise for a Marine unit of which you may become a member. However, based on the past, loss of over 50% (assuming that would be the definition of "probably") of any military unit (Marines included) is extremely rare.  If you look at the number of those who have served as US Marines and how many Marines have been killed on active duty, the number is extremely small.  So, no, if you join the Marines, you "probably" -- even "almost certainly" -- will NOT be killed. 715 Views · View Upvoters   Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management Answered May 30, 2016 · Author has 842 answers and 1.6m answer views As a Marine you'll often be asked to solve problems and figure things out on your own. So I recommend you research how many Marines have died in combat in the past decade of war . Then compare that with how many Marines have served in that same time period. Now with those you can do the math and determine the probability of you getting killed in combat. 853 Views · View Upvoters   Russ Laraway , Infantry Company Commander Answered Nov 3, 2015 · Upvoted by  Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management · Author has 96 answers and 89.7k answer views The probability you will be killed is extremely low - the math is crazy good in your favor, but it is absolutely a risk that needs to be carefully considered when deciding to join. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at Commonwealth of Massachusetts Answered Nov 5, 2015 · Author has 575 answers and 883.7k answer views If you joined the Marines (assuming you are physically, mentally and emotionally qualified), went to war, and avoided anything that could kill a person, you would not get killed.  The things that kill Marines in combat are the same things that would kill anyone else in combat with any other branch of the military, so being a Marine does not increase the likelihood of getting killed. My uncle joined the USMC in the 1960's, went to Vietnam and survived.  All the Marines I know who went to Iraq and Afghanistan returned home. 922 Views   Dane Strickland , USMC 2006-2012 Answered Oct 31, 2015 No. The vast majority of Marines in combat come back alive. Some Marines don't deploy at all. It is true that some die, but your training is good enough that it will probably won't happen. 490 Views   Vohn Watts DC , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Nov 17, 2015 No, the chances are extremely low. But in reality your percentages change based on the job you choose. 140 Views   Philip Partain , 14 years military experience, last 4 as an officer in the Navy Chaplain Corps. Answered Nov 3, 2015 Killed...'probably' not. However, if you keep spelling Marine with a lower-case 'm', you 'probably' be threatened with a re-education process that will simulate death. 157 Views Related Questions What should one be aware of when joining the Marines? How hard is it to get into the Marines? Why did you join the marines? Can I join the marines if I used to have ADHD? How can I get in shape to join the Marines Corps? Is it possible to join the Marines then join the Navy? Should I join the Army or the Marine Corps? Why do you want to join marine field? Is being in the Marines worthwhile? Why, or why not? What are the benefits of joining the Marines? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Should I join the Marines? If so, why? Can you join the Marines with a felony? What should I do before joining the Marines? What kind of people join the Marines? Can you join the Marines with a misdemeanor? What should one be aware of when joining the Marines? How hard is it to get into the Marines? Why did you join the marines? Can I join the marines if I used to have ADHD? How can I get in shape to join the Marines Corps? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Risk Management  Risk and Risks  Warfare  Death and Dying  Military History and Wars What is the true risk of being killed in war? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 10 Answers   Roland Bartetzko , former German Army, Croatian Defense Council, Kosovo Liberation Army Updated May 8, 2017 · Author has 676 answers and 33m answer views Statistics and absolute numbers can’t determine the “true risk” of an individual to be killed in a war. You can fight in a war with relatively few casualties on your side (like the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan) and still get killed. On the other hand, your whole unit might be wiped out in the bloodiest of conflicts and you are the only survivor. Important “relative”, non quantifiable risk factors are: Type of war: In a Guerrilla campaign, the insurgents usually have higher losses than the counterinsurgency forces. At least in the beginning, the government forces are stronger than their opponents. This is why you start a guerrilla campaign: you don’t have enough forces for a conventional war! Usually, a counterinsurgent force also has the technical superiority over the Guerrilla which is another factor to explain their low(er) casualty numbers. The Kosovo Liberation Army, for example, lost 18.7 % of its soldiers on the battlefield (17,500 soldiers, 3269 killed), while their enemy, the Serbian counterinsurgency forces, only lost 1.43 % of theirs (105,000 soldiers, 1500 killed). [1] In conventional wars, the casualty numbers between the different militaries involved are usually closer together and it doesn’t even matter which side has lost and which one has won the war: During Operation Barbarossa in WWII, the Soviets lost around 34 % of their soldiers (2.9 million soldiers, 1 million killed) fighting against the Germans, while the Germans with their Allies lost 26% of their soldiers (3.8 million soldiers, 1 million killed) on the Eastern front. [2] Tactics: Surprisingly, many combat soldiers do not die in firefights with the enemy, but in other combat related activities on the battlefield. A good example is the number of Navy SEALs and personal attached to them that got killed in Afghanistan: From the 55 Navy Seals killed in Afghanistan [3] , only 12 soldiers (or 21%) were killed through combat related injuries, but many more (33 soldiers or 78%) lost their lives for a number of very different reasons: 1 suicide 1 drowned in a river during a combat operation 3 died through IED’s, mines or non specified explosions 16 were helicopter crash victims 22 died when their CH-47 helicopter was shot down by an enemy RPG We can see that most soldiers died while they were transported in helicopters (38 SEALs or 69%). During the same time, only three SEALs were killed while travelling in jeeps or Armored Personnel Carriers. In war, tactics are often changed, because of the high number of casualties they “produce”. Especially important are “defensive tactics” like anti sniper tactics which, if properly applied, can save a lot of lives. Intelligence: To have correct and actionable intelligence available on the battlefield does not only make it easier to detect and kill the enemy, but also helps to avoid dangerous situations for your own troops, like ambushes, planned enemy attacks etc. Type of unit: If you are infantry, you can expect that your risk to get killed is higher than that of an artillery or logistics soldier, but not in every conflict. In many wars and especially in counterinsurgency campaigns there might be an equal number of killed soldiers in support units and combat troops. This can be explained with the character of the conflict. A Guerrilla army attacks where the enemy is weakest and a supply transport makes a much easier target than a well protected armored column near the frontline. Special forces, Quick Reaction forces, but also volunteer units have the highest casualty rates. This is due to the dangerous character of their assignments, but also because more “courage and engagement” is expected from them than from other units. Foreign volunteers on the frontline in Bosnia Material: Armored cars, Mine resistant vehicles, body armor, but also mine detecting equipment, ground radars and night vision equipment help keeping casualty numbers low. As I already mentioned, technical superiority also helps to reduce the number of your losses. Training: A well trained soldier has a higher chance to survive on the battlefield. A trained and well coordinated unit is more effective and will suffer fewer losses. Especially important in this regard is specialized pre-deployment training and training in the deployment zones. The better and longer the training, the lower the number of casualties. Experience: In combat the first weeks are the most dangerous. Even with the best training and preparation, there are things that can be learned only “on the job”. After a while, the soldiers become familiar with the battlefield and with their enemy and start to develop instincts that will help them to make the right decisions. Leadership: Military leaders always have to balance between their mission objective and the risk for their soldiers. This can vary, even in the same battalion or company. If you are too careful, you will never reach your objective, but on the other hand who dares does not always win. During World War II, many German Army and Waffen SS units were led by officers who were hungry for a medal and had little consideration for their own lives and the lives of their soldiers. As a result they sustained exorbitantly high losses which in the end contributed to Germany losing the war. Medical system: Often forgotten, the medics are the ones who decide between a gravestone or a purple heart. A good and effective medical system does not only boost morale but saves lives. This is maybe the single most important reason why the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan have sustained relatively few deadly losses. Individual character: A careful soldier has better chances to survive. There are many individual and group character traits that influence casualty numbers. To name just a few: Motivation: fanatics usually risk more and are therefore more prone to get wounded or killed. Emotions: hate for the enemy and love for your country will get you killed equally quickly. Personal beliefs: a soldier who believes that the cause for the war is right is more ready to risk his life than someone who is just”doing his job”. Intelligence: to be able to properly analyze a tactical situation is a big advantage and might save lives. National character and culture: Some nations are more risk averse than others. Usually Western countries value the life of an individual more than oriental societies. During the Croatian War of Independence, foreign volunteers from different nations had different casualty rates [4] , which could be explained, although not exclusively, by their national character: Hungary: 33 volunteers, 2 killed, 6 %Killed in Action Australia:15 volunteers, 1 killed, 6.7% Killed in Action The Netherlands: 27 volunteers, 7.4% Killed in Action Ireland: 10 volunteers, 1 killed, 10.0% Killed in Action England: 139 volunteers , 15 killed, 10.8 % Killed in Action France: 67 volunteers, 8 killed, 11.9 %Killed in Action United States, 18 volunteers, 3 killed, 16.7% Killed in Action Austria 10 volunteers, 2 killed, 20% Killed in Action Germany: 53 volunteers 14 killed, 26.4 % Killed in Action Although the samples are too small to have any scientific value, they show that soldiers in the same army and conflict, with the same tactics and training, still have very different probabilities to get killed. If combat losses are acceptable or not depends on the political system. A dictatorship can sacrifice a lot more soldiers before having to deal with domestic unrest than a democracy does. In other words: if you fight for a regime, your chances to get killed are higher. Luck: Many of the above mentioned factors are out of an individual’s control. You get drafted, don’t get the appropriate training and will be sent to war. Your officers are useless and your equipment old and of low quality. There isn’t much you can do. Often, an individual that volunteers for a non combat related military occupation has better chances to stay alive than a draftee. If the conflict continues for a long time however, these soldiers will also be sent to the frontlines and die. In the end, each individual’s risk of being killed in combat is the product of all the above mentioned factors and many more. If you are in a wartime military, as a volunteer or draftee, logistics or special forces, there is always the risk to get killed. You can lower your own personal risk by making the right decisions, but after that it’s out of your hands and it often comes down to sheer luck. Footnotes [1] ZYRTARE: Kjo është lista finale e dëshmorëve, invalidëve dhe veteranëve në gjithë Kosovën  - Aktuale - Zeri [2] Operation Barbarossa - Wikipedia [3] Our Fallen Heroes - Navy SEAL Foundation [4] 481 foreign volunteers from 35 countries defended Croatia in 1991-1995 23.8k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Ask New Question   Jon Davis , Military and Cultural Historian, Veteran of US Military Updated Aug 5, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views The risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11 estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660 which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we see that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see that total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. These figures do not account for job specialty, which will skew heavily towards infantry type units. I don't have data for this, but as the previous statistics probably surprised many, so will those of the infantry when they become available. Stats from: War in Afghanistan (2001–present) - 2,173 US KIA, 23,500 Coalition WIA (Majority US) Iraq War - 4,487 US KIA, 32,226 US WIA Estimations based on United States Department of Defense Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 29.2k Views · View Upvoters   Thomas Snerdley , No one is promised tomorrow. TODAY is the day. Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 1.7k answers and 8.6m answer views Slight digression: First of all, there is no War on Terror.  Terror is a tactic, not an actual enemy so by definition there is no way to declare war on it much less prevail.  Only Bush 43 and his neo-conservative chicken hawk apologizers are stupid enough to promulgate such a nonsense phrase.  How on earth did we survive 8 years of misrule by this coterie of idiots? To answer your question: We can make war less risky by better understanding the psychology and sociology of ourselves first, and then those of our "adversaries".  In the vast majority of instances we will find that there is no actual reason for hostility (the emotion) or hostilities (the action) . At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by making war unnecessary . If a conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by taking a great deal of time and effort to understand exactly what effects we wish to achieve and developing a method of achieving those effects that does not include violence.  Many conflicts have been resolved through negotiation, sanctions, embargoes, spycraft and the threat of force without actually engaging in organized violence. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by resolving the situation without violence. If a violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by enabling it to be fought by the smallest number of American participants likely to achieve our goals.  In practical terms this means attempting to have the people directly involved in that country (e.g., mujaheddin in Afghanistan, rebels in Syria) fight it themselves.  If necessary, America could support them by deploying small teams of special forces personnel supported by assets operating in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  In Afghanistan, when we operated with small teams of special forces troops organizing and assisting local fighters we experienced great success.  When we attempted to force the issue with huge, unwieldy Army and Marine units, we got bogged down and lost. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by reducing the number of American lives put in jeopardy to fight in a conflict. If a large scale violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by ensuring full-spectrum dominance in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  Again, commitment of large-scale ground forces is almost always counterproductive in general and is always counterproductive to the specific goal of making war less risky. Does this answer the question? " To subdue the enemy without fighting ... this is the acme of skill ."  -- Sun Tzu 3.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Colin D. Welch , I have read a lot about military history Answered Sep 24, 2012 · Author has 656 answers and 484.3k answer views I spoke with a guy who works for intelligence, he told me that a lot more positions in the Military are desk jobs. Logistics, Intelligence, operations, etc. He said that he never expected to use powerpoint this much. I would say that joining the army isn't a risk per se, its whether you're in a combat unit that it starts getting risky. 1.3k Views   Jon Mixon , Studied military actions from the Punic Wars to South Waziristan Updated Dec 4, 2012 · Author has 19.3k answers and 89.8m answer views The overwhelming majority of combatants in any war survive the conflict.  Having said that:you can't make war "less risky." Risk will always exist for both side although the side with greater technology and with better planning and logistics will almost always prevail. The only ways which might make warfare somewhat "safer" (itself a subjective term) are likely: For the stronger side to completely crush the opposing side as quickly and as violently as possible before the opponents can inflict significant casualties. Not to fight a war in the first place. 3.7k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Hooah means everything but no Updated Nov 17, 2011 · Author has 3.7k answers and 5.1m answer views We have mechanized it to the extent our technology permits, and will further mechanize it as technology allows us to. We now use drones with pinpoint accuracy, guns that can shoot around a corner, robots that can get up close and check situations out, and I can only surmise what's on the drawing board. The problem with this mechanization is if war is fought by machines, there are no consequences and that would take away a deterrent. This is a video, produced by the New York Times, is a few years old about the Army of the future but is worth watching nonetheless. http://www.nytimes.com/packages/... 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , A reader of all things historical, from the ancient to the recent. Answered Jun 10, 2013 · Author has 247 answers and 299.3k answer views I think how one approaches this question depends largely on how we view 'losing one's life.' It is easy to quantify the damage done in terms of number of deceased.  While advances in battlefield medicine and military technology allow us to consistently remove soldiers from harm's way and successfully treat more severe injuries, there is a psychological and emotional toll that war takes on the human mind that is almost impossible to avoid. For instance, a recent NY Times piece reports on post-traumatic stress in drone pilots: Distance from Carnage Doesn't Prevent PTSD for Drone Pilots . Shane Smith from VICE also recently had some interesting comments on the true human costs of war: In summary, I think that there will always be improvement in how a military can preserve its human capital, but there will always leave scars in the minds and hearts of those who see its true nature. 3k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Jun 10, 2013 War is, by its nature, a breeding ground of unpredictable events. By which I mean that every statistic from yesterday's war _might_ be completely irrelevant in the next one, by many orders of magnitude. What is the true risk of humanity ending due to a nuclear winter ? The conditional probability is probably close to one, but what is the probability of an all out nuclear war ? How can a rational person even try to associate a realistic (meaning verifyable) number ? Create a million alternative Earths and measure how many blow themselves up ? It's a non-scientific question. 764 Views   Aaron Anderson , I am a recent graduate from King’s College London with a degree in Intelligence and International Security ... Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 55 answers and 87.8k answer views If the rules were the same for each side fighting in the wars - then maybe less risk. The discourse on war is how military commanders perceive wars ought to be fought. When opposing sides fight outside this framework things get messy. I think a recent example of increased risk is asymmetric warfare between a large state and say a non-state actor like an insurgency. One could use the mujahideen in Afghanistan during the 1980s and the Taliban as examples. I also don't think technological advances and state superiority means a victory- Soviets 1980s. My point is that when rules are established on how wars ought to be fought, standards and methods of operations are understood by each side.  Expectations of what the  adversary is planning may be predicted. Outside this framework it can be pretty messy. This may help to explain why the Obama administration has chosen drones to target insurgent and terrorist groups. As written in Wired for War the drones may provide ~ an asymmetric solution for an asymmetric problem. Of course, however, there's always risk. The fog of war is unavoidable, but managing it is possible I imagine. 1.7k Views   Richard Wagner , Master's Library Administrator (1972) Answered Feb 14, 2018 · Author has 352 answers and 21.8k answer views Over a long period it is less than leading a normal civilian life. A list of causes of death would show it being near the bottom. Of course there are periods of intense combat when it temporarily increases. For the period from 1950 to date it is probably less than auto accidents, numerous illnesses, etc. 71 Views Related Questions Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Is it true that war is inevitable? Is it true that mosquitoes have killed more humans than all the wars in history? Will the next World War be a civil war? Are wars legal or illegal, or can wars be neither? What principles would you be willing to go to war, risk your life and kill people? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Survival  Statistics (collected data)  Warfare WWI: What were the odds of survival for front line soldiers on major offensives? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Want to learn basic statistic concepts? Sign up for introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Classroom & online courses available. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 3 Answers   Nathan Sledgister Answered Sep 27, 2016 · Author has 94 answers and 422.5k answer views Since the examples provided are battles that were fought on the western front, I’ll answer the question for that theater. Ultimately, you’re odds of survival depended a lot on luck. Basically, they could change based on the time, place, and job you were assigned. For example, if you were one of these guys: You’re chances may not so great compared to the general infantry. These are German storm troopers. Their job was to charge enemy trenches, hit them with grenade barrages (hence the large amount of grenades they are carrying) and take the trench. This was a very dangerous job, since these guys were almost always the first to fight in an offensive. Additionally, different offensives had much better or worse casualty rates. On the first day of the Somme Offensive, the British army suffered 57,470 casualties, with 19,240 of those being fatal casualties. Defensive soldiers had lower rates of casualties due to their entrenched positions. It’s obviously easier to fight when you’re in cover and the enemy isn’t, so for front line soldiers on the defensive you’re chances looked a lot better than for an attacker. Unfortunately, that is the best answer I can provide. There were a lot of offensives that took place over the course of the war, and at each one you’re odds of survival were different if you were a front line soldier, making any general statements about this question difficult. Sorry if it wasn’t that helpful, if you have a more specific question maybe I can provide a better answer. 7.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Conor Deegan promoted  by Wharton Executive Education Learn business analytics online with Wharton Executive Education. Enroll in this three-month Business Analytics program and turn data into a revenue-producing action. Apply Now at execed-emeritus.wharton.upenn You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below How were families informed of the death of a soldier in WWI? Why do sometimes soldiers simply walk in the front line (watch attached video)? What is it like for infantry soldiers to fight on the front line during war? Can you describe daily life for pilots nearest the front lines in WWI? Is war really that psychologically scarring to soldiers on the front line? Ask New Question   Andrew Warinner , Code monkey, expat, utility infielder Answered Feb 10, 2011 · Author has 1.4k answers and 6m answer views It can be difficult to tease out the statistics for a front line soldier. If you look at larger formations like divisions, support troops and units in reserve or rest are included in the totals which will skew the odds. Battalions are perhaps the best unit to look at. They have minimal support troops and are big enough that losses suffered by an individual company won't necessarily overwhelm the fate of the entire unit. So consider the experience of the 1st Battalion of the East Yorkshire Regiment that fought in the opening days of the Somme: < http://www.1914-1918.net/Diaries/wardiary-1eastyorks.html> The battalion was in action between July 1 - 4 before being withdrawn. In that time, the battalion lost 8 officers killed, 11 officers wounded, 35 men killed, 239 wounded and 158 missing. The notional strength of the battalion was around 1000 officers and men. Unfortunately the diary does not give the battalion's initial strength, it probably wasn't 1000 and it was not apparently in combat immediately before the battle and so probably was more or less up to strength. However, the war diary does list the officers that started the battle: 23 officers among the four companies and HQ company. So 35% of the officers were killed and 48% wounded in four days of action. As for the men, a guesstimate of a strength of 800 gives about 4% killed, 30% wounded and 20% missing. Some portion of the missing were captured of course, but given the battalion was on the attack, it is a reasonable assumption that a large portion of the missing were killed and their bodies not recovered, especially given the low number known killed and the high number of wounded. This is not an unrepresentative experience for the Somme. There were battalions that went in with 800 men and came out with 60. It does underline the difference between the officers and men: it was much more dangerous to be a junior officer than to be in the ranks. 15.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Sean Campbell , Founder - B2B Market Research Company - Host of B2B Revealed Answered Feb 10, 2011 · Author has 65 answers and 33.2k answer views A good resource can be found here - http://europeanhistory.about.com... In essence a English soldier had a 1 in 7 chance of being killed (mobilized vs. KIA) A French soldier had a 1 in 5 chance of being killed. 8.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. This new site reveals so much more. Enter a name and state to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions How were British soldiers returning from WWI welcomed back? Were there any big parades welcoming them home? Were there any soldiers that survived WWI from start to finish? What would soldiers fear in WWI? Before guns were invented, what did soldiers not in the front line do? What were some survival tips on the front lines during WW1 and WW2? How are they different now? What cameras were used to capture the iconic studio portraits of WWI soldiers? Why were soldiers so willing to fight in line battles? What were American soldiers called in WWI? How were airplanes used in WWI? What was included in WWII rations for front-line soldiers? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How were families informed of the death of a soldier in WWI? Why do sometimes soldiers simply walk in the front line (watch attached video)? What is it like for infantry soldiers to fight on the front line during war? Can you describe daily life for pilots nearest the front lines in WWI? Is war really that psychologically scarring to soldiers on the front line? How were British soldiers returning from WWI welcomed back? Were there any big parades welcoming them home? Were there any soldiers that survived WWI from start to finish? What would soldiers fear in WWI? Before guns were invented, what did soldiers not in the front line do? What were some survival tips on the front lines during WW1 and WW2? How are they different now? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      The Quickest and Easiest Way to Get Disqualified at Meps  - Duration: 14:13.  Raymond Isiah  18,864 views     14:13      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      TOP 10 REASONS MARINES LEAVE THE MILITARY..  - Duration: 12:59.  Rod Keller  248,321 views     12:59      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      BRAND NEW ARMY MEDIC 68W EXPECT FOR THE WORST!  - Duration: 9:56.  ARCHIEzzle  20,537 views     9:56      Military Police (MP) Town Patrol 1955 US Army; The Big Picture TV-325; MPs in Augusta, Georgia  - Duration: 28:11.  Jeff Quitney  24,436 views     28:11      What to Bring to Basic Training and What to Buy When you Arrive!  - Duration: 12:36.  ARCHIEzzle  104,570 views     12:36     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      US ARMY INFANTRY "GRUNT VS  POG"  - Duration: 6:51.  ARCHIEzzle  64,584 views     6:51      What to Bring to Basic Training and What to Buy When you Arrive!  - Duration: 12:36.  ARCHIEzzle  104,570 views     12:36      3 Things Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You  - Duration: 8:01.  Matt Ward  103,244 views     8:01      Explaining US Army Warrant Officer rank  - Duration: 8:16.  Christopher Chaos  113,953 views     8:16      BRAND NEW ARMY MEDIC 68W EXPECT FOR THE WORST!  - Duration: 9:56.  ARCHIEzzle  20,537 views     9:56     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...          The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design What Were a U.S. Soldier's Odds of Dying in Each War? Kyle VanHemert 3/02/11 11:00am Filed to: data point Filed to: data point data point wars Stats Warfare 154 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink Our perceptions of wars are pushed and pulled by myriad forces—their causes, their outcomes, their places in our national narrative, etc. But on the level of the individual, which was the deadliest? Nicholas Hobbes' Essential Militaria breaks down the stats for eleven historic conflicts: Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Indian Wars: 0.9 percent (1 in 106) • Mexican War: 2.2 percent (1 in 45) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) I'm not trying to fight in any war, but if you strapped me in a time machine and made me pick one, I guess I'd go with the Spanish-American War. As long as I don't have to be in Teddy Roosevelt's regiment. [ Geekosystem ] Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now You may also like Jalopnik Here&apos;s The Bugatti Chiron&apos;s Tacked-On American-Market Bumper Lumps Jason Torchinsky 4/12/17 2:28pm Deadspin Presenting The 2018 Name Of The Year Bracket Sam Gutelle 3/28/18 10:29am Gizmodo Just 53 People Used the App That Let Cambridge Analytica Swipe Data From Up to 311,127 Australians Matt Novak Today 10:25am Recent from Kyle VanHemert 2 28 30.9K You Don&apos;t Want to Live Inside This Perpetually Rainy House Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 7:00pm 1 4 4.4K Photofon Shows Just the Photos in Your Twitter Timeline Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 4:40pm 1 35 27.5K iWork for iPhone Kyle VanHemert 5/31/11 6:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.                ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of getting killed in the army?    I was thinking of joining the Army because stuff like that, plus Law enforcement such as being a cop, intrigue me.  what are the chances of getting killed? And what all can you do when you join?  thanks         Follow      11 answers  11    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Tyra Banks      Bobby Lashley      Stephanie McMahon      Jon Rahm      John McVie      AARP      Rafael Nadal      Alexi Ashe      Rocket Mortgage      UnitedHealthcare          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  I did the Math on this not too long ago before my 3rd deployment and I came up with .8% for one 12 month tour. However, this does not take into account that when I did this there were 100 soldiers a month dieing last month their were 5. Also if you are in a job that goes out of the wire every day your odds are much higher than the cook that makes sure chow is hot. Your odds of getting wounded are much higher though roughly 10 times that of dieing.  If you are really afraid of being injured please choose another job. I don't need another cowardly soldier that is ducking leaving the wire every time we have a mission, lord knows we already have plenty of them.      Source(s):  18 years in the Army    Quickspic  · 10 years ago       11  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment          Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                          Your odds of being killed as a male 18-24 are 200-300 hundred times higher in the USandA than as an Army or Marine member in Iraq AND Afghanistan combined. Even the NY Times agreed with this calculation.       jim  · 10 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         When you consider how many people there are in the Army and how many have been killed so far, I think you'll agree that you stand more of a chance of being killed in your every day life especially in larger cities.  I personally know many soldiers who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan that have been there two and three times and most have not even seen action while others had a lot of fun while in action but I have yet to meet one that regretted joining...Well except the ones that didn't make it through boot camp.       Source(s):  US Marines 76-77 Former law enforcement    JundaKell  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       I don't have exact stats, but I understand that some 4,000 military personnel have died in Iraq since it started over there.  That's an average of 800 per year.  I'm also given to understand that at any time, there are over 130,000 troops in Iraq.  On those numbers alone, your chance of dying in any year is about 6 out of a 1,000.  Or 994 chance out of 1,000 that you'll live.  Of course, those don't count every death, including accidents, sickness, and personnel who die from non-military action, such as driving on the highway back home, but those odds are about the same, whether you're Army or a civilian.  Considering the U.S. death toll EVERY year is 16,000 for murder, or that nearly 50,000 people die EACH year in traffic accidents, I'd say your odds of dying in the Army due to military duty is pretty marginal.       demos_jones  · 10 years ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Chances of being killed are small.  If you want to be a cop, join the Army and go with Military Police.  It will make it easier to become a cop if and when you get out of the military.       Jimmy Jazz  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment            Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         chances of getting killed hmm depends on where you're at, what mos you are, how ****** up your leadership is and how well you pay attention to your surroundings, soldiers die everyday, sometimes it seems like its a roll of the dice, now dont let that discourage you from doing what you want to do, research the mos that are in the army, and make an educated decision, dont make a half assed decision without all the knowledge you can get, and show up at a duty station with a poor attitude, thats what puts soldiers lives in danger       thedolphinflogger  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       u have a better chance of walking around detroit and dying... or even driving a car       Rafael T  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       if you are worried about dying for your country, you are much better off joining the coast guard or just remaining a civilian. as for the army, it will depends on how well you and the people next to you are trained.       Source(s):  USMC..oorah    Josh B  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     5  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Your chances of dying are better in a car than dying in battle. You will never regret service to your country.       Source(s):  Life member VFW    Plumber Rock  · 10 years ago      8  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     join the marines.   you wont regret it. my brother is a Marine, he left a kid, came back a man, came back a Marine  look at this picture, and seriously consider the USMC  http://www.stuff.hqubed.com/uploads/army%20vs%20marines.jpg       Anonymous  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     6  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Consolidate Your Student Loans   Looking for a new crossover?   Considering an online college?   Interested in dating sites?              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    Chances of getting killed in army?        Chances of women getting killed in Army today?        Army officer chances of getting killed?       More questions       Are chances higher getting killed in America or in the Military ( Army)?        What is the chance of getting killed in the US army?          Answer Questions    Will WW3 soon starts in Syria ?        Mark IX can you answer me?        How long can your hair be in the army?        Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  7 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                          ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of dying in the Army?    I never really worried about dying if I were to join (I'm currently in Army ROTC), but I had this SCARY dream last night and now I'm scared as hell.  What are my chances to die in the Army if I were to be an Intel Officer as my MOS?  Is it easier to die here in the US like in a car crash?  Thanks   Update:  Thanks for the responses guys.  Yeah I guess the chance of dying in the USA isn't that much different.. Besides, I'd rather die engaging the enemy than in a car crash in Interstate 25.         Follow      13 answers  13    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Tyra Banks      Bobby Lashley      Stephanie McMahon      Jon Rahm      John McVie      AARP      Rafael Nadal      Alexi Ashe      Rocket Mortgage      UnitedHealthcare          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  Percentage wise you're more likely to die in a car accident or crime.  Intel officer is a great choice for lots of reasons.  The military is in a dangerous business to be sure, but the likelihood of death in America is pretty high too.  As for the number who have died in Iraq, keep in mind many would have died in that same time period with no war.  They would have died in off duty accidents, training accidents and suicide and I'm tired of hearing people say the suicide rates are higher now in the military.  That's total BS!!  We have lower incidents of suicide even though the age group 18-27 is one of the highest in society, because he teach prevention programs, intervention and track every suicide.  The military's rate is always lower than the civilian sector and lower during war.      Source(s):      Reformed  · 1 decade ago       4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   Only a fool would tell you that you would not die or get seriously hurt.  It is always a possibility and that is one of the reasons why those who undertake this kind of lifestyle deserve our utmost gratitude.  As an intel officer, I will tell you that there are fewer chances of you being in harms way than say an infantry officer.  It all really depends on what you do and where you find yourself.  Keep in mind that in this current war, there have been far fewer deaths for the number of troops we have over there than in any other war past.  In Vietnam alone we lost about 58,000 servicemen in just under a decade of fighting.  To date we've lost about 4,000 in nearly the same amount of time.  I am not trying to say that you will not die or that nothing will ever happen to you, but if you ever were to join the army and have the least probability of dying, now would be the time.  With our medical capabilities too, we are able to evacuate people from the Point of Injury or POI to the necessary level of care in record time.  What used to take hours if not days can take a matter of minutes.  Usually no more than an hour.  This is because of the incredible response times of our Medical Evacuation systems that can retrieve a wounded soldier from anywhere on the battlefield.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         All I have to say is prepare yourself mentally for combat no matter what your MOS is. Some intel guys (Marines) that I know of actually went out to on patrol, but most likely you would be in the COC, looking over you intel Soldiers and I would assume that you won't go to out on patrol as often as other Soldiers. You have a likelihood of dying a car accident than if you were an intel Officer. If the dream still bothers you, I suggest you talk to your CO in charge so this will not have a negative impact on you later on.       Source(s):  USMCR    ____________________________  · 1 decade ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Lets just say the odds are about even!  But if you are afraid of dying by serving in the Army, then the odds would have to go up!  Someone who is scared is going to be too cautious to be of much use, if you didn't realize that before, be aware of it now!  Many of those men who are serving now were in the reserves, many had no idea they were going to be sent into a war when they joined, some have been sent back several X's!  If you are scared then don't join the Army or Marines, join the Navy or Air force, they are somewhat safer.       geegee  · 1 decade ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Don't worrie about dying man. Life is for living. You are going to die one day. So do something you love. There is more to the army then just fighting and dying. You become apart of something bigger then you have ever seen. You are an American. You are the best of the best. Look in your history books. HOOAH!       armyharvey1821  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         there is actually a higher chance of you dying in detroit.im not kidding but also not that many people died in the military over the years we've been to. more people die in america than our soldiers do in the middle east.if you were worried about dying you should move to like wyoming the least populated state or North dakota       Three Dog  · 1 decade ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     There are over 2 million members in the US Military, 4,000 have died in a time of war in over a span of 5 years, you do the math. The chances aren't all that high, probably higher in Detroit or somewhere.       Anonymous  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Listen to your NCO's and try not to do anything..stupid.  You'll be fine, you'll probably be a fobbit anyway.       Hjaduk  · 1 decade ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       only 30% higher then if you lived in detroit....i'm being serious. it really depends upon your job, truck driver not so good, techincal much better       Untamed Rose  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Probably high especially because they keep sending the soldiers back over and over and over and over again. Suicide rate has climbed and ptsd is a sure bet when you come home. Think about you decision carefully and then do what you think is best.       suzy  · 1 decade ago      0  Thumbs up     9  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Find Email Marketing Software   Consolidate Your Student Loans   Need a DUI Attorney?   Graphic Design Degrees              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What is the chances of dying in the army?        Whats the chances of dying in the United States Army?        What are the chances of dying if I join the BRITISH army?       More questions       Chance of dying in the army?        What are the chances of dying in the army reserve?          Answer Questions    Mark IX can you answer me?        Can you cross rank from EOD to Diver? And if I wanted to retake the ASVAB while enlisted, can one retake it while in basic?        Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?        How long can your hair be in the army?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  7 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                                      MORE Sign In Join    54    Soapboxie » Military     10 Awful Things About the Army Nobody Tells You Updated on August 8, 2017   Cecil Kenmill   more   Source       Disclosure Now, I know what you're thinking already but this isn't that. I'm not bashing the military or America. Also, I don't want to scare you because the Army isn't scary. If you sincerely want to serve, then that's awesome!  So what's this about? Let's put it this way: if you want to buy a car, you can go to the dealer and stare at it endlessly. You can walk around it as many times as you want, maybe even kick the tires. But remember: tires can be changed. You have to look under the hood. If you want to make the right decision, you have to do your homework. This article will help you do that.  I focus on the Army because it's the only branch I served in. I can't speak for other branches. To be fair, I have another article titled 7 Awesome Things About the Army Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You . Take a look at it after you read this one.  Finally, I refer to the soldier as a "he." I do this only to keep things simple. I know there are many female service members. I am proud to have served alongside them. Thank you for understanding.   Ten Awful Things About the Army No One Tells You About   10. Identity theft is a threat and it's just as bad for veterans. You might think that if you worked for the Army, you'd be safe, but let's get this out of the way right now: identity theft is rampant for service members, veterans, and their families.  If you haven't memorized your social security number by now, you will within the first few days of in-processing. Throughout your entire military career, it will be used so often on so much paperwork that you will get numb to it. It's even on your dog tags! Why? There are so many people in the military that the quickest, easiest way to identify each individual is to do so by number. You'll notice a lot of private sector companies do this as well.  Every form you fill out is another opportunity for a criminal to get your name, social security number, and date of birth. In minutes, you can become an identity theft casualty. If you're fighting in the latest war, you won't know for months! Instead of confetti in your ticker-tape parade, you'll have bills and more paperwork—this time with the credit bureaus and collection agencies. Oh, and this doesn't end after your time is up: It's just as easy to nab a veteran's identity.  But why would criminals go for a single target when they can carpet bomb millions of hardworking, taxpaying Americans at once? Computers are stolen from the homes and cars of government officials so often that the media thinks it's old news. Do any of them get thrown in prison? Fired? Disciplined? No. Also the government has never been shy about hiring contractors to handle office work that contains such sensitive information. I don't know if this makes it better or worse for our troops.  So why does the Department of Defense insist on social security numbers? If anyone has that one figured out, please post your answer in the comment section below. A soldier was once issued a serial number that served the same purpose. No more. Now, he's fighting on two fronts.       9. The Army is not adult daycare. This misconception gets people killed. One of the things I despise most is the idea that the Army serves the soldier. The Army doesn't serve you: You serve your country by joining the Army. Fortunately, there are few people that believe this because Basic Combat Training (BCT) does an outstanding job of smoking that idea out of their heads. But still, they're out there, making life for other soldiers far worse and sometimes more dangerous.  The Army does have benefits that help soldiers and families throughout their lives. These benefits are not available anywhere else, so it makes sense for civilians to join the military to get them. That's not what I'm talking about. In fact, I highly recommend you get involved in all the programs you can. You will be a better soldier now and a better civilian afterwards. You will make America great!  What I am talking about is the idea that the Army is just a job that's impossible to get fired from, a steady source of income for anyone who can twiddle his thumbs and stay out of sight. Usually, I don't care what people think. However, this kind of attitude usually leads to sub-par performance.  A soldier might get out of shape, forget minute but important parts of certain procedures, not take inspections seriously, and so on. Everyone else in the team now has a larger load to bear.  Friend, the days of Beetle Bailey are over. It's funny to see it in a comic strip but to see it in real life is disgusting. If you're the guy who thinks the Army is Club Med for slackers, then the rest of this article will scare the living you-know-what out of you.   Catch-22: 50th Anniversary Edition A lot of things about the Army don't make sense. Catch-22 pokes fun at them and the bureaucracy that involves any large organization. It's a classic.  Buy Now    8. It will destroy your soul. David Wong published an outstanding article on Cracked.com, 9 Types of Jobs that Will Destroy Your Soul, which aptly describes the roles people play in the workplace. I must warn you that the language is rough, but every word of it is true. Every soldier has experienced at least seven of these roles at some point during his military career. I will not re-write what the article says, but I will tell you that every soldier can, at any moment, become:  The punching bag , who bears the brunt of complaints but can do nothing to help.  The walking dead , facing sleep deprivation and irregular hours.  The laughingstock, doing a job everyone makes fun of.  The cog , performing endless tasks with mindless repetition.  The rat in a cage : A manager responsible for those he has no authority over.  The assistant cromulationist: A highly-specialized job that is impossible to explain.  The Bob: The job that makes everyone else's job harder.  The girl or the "lone representative of your gender in the workplace" (this applies to female soldiers).  The article is hilarious. If you are a civilian, you will appreciate it, but if you are a soldier, you live it every day.       Source   7. You are on call 24/7, even when you're not. Ever wonder why service members tell time differently? For example, it's not 11 p.m., it's 2300 hrs. This is because war never sleeps. Those who think otherwise have another thing coming. Battle is about maneuvering units and materials at a moment's notice to secure a tactical advantage. This can easily happen at night and easily make no sense to you.  No matter what your rank or specialization, the Army can wake you up at 0200 hrs and make you guard a port-o-potty in the middle of nowhere, thousands of miles from any national security threat. All you'll have to protect yourself is a broom and a canteen. You have no say in the matter, and nobody is required to explain anything.  You're not even safe on vacation. Oh, did you know the Army includes weekends and holidays as vacation days? That came as a shock to me. When you go on vacation, you are expected to fill out a lot more paperwork than you would at a company in the private sector. The Army wants to know where you are even when you're on vacation, down to the hotel you'll be staying in.  Why? In case of national emergency, the Army has to know where you are so it can summon you if they need you. Even if you are far from your base, you may be contacted to report to a closer one. This is highly unlikely, but it is a soldier's responsibility.   6. Your First Amendment rights are gone—this is the cost of protecting everyone else's. Most service members easily accept this. I did. Even though I knew what I believed in, I also knew it wasn't fair to use my uniform to push my personal beliefs on anyone else. The people who love to sell their beliefs wrapped in a flag with a pretty yellow ribbon on top will be annoyed to see that their rights to free speech are tossed right out the window.  Don't get me wrong, you can always be an armchair activist. Maybe even go to a few events. However, the second you identify yourself as a service member, you're in deep trouble: You fight for America, you don't speak for it.  Still, the Army seems to favor Christianity. "Oh Lord" this and "praise Jesus" that. This shouldn't surprise anyone as the United States is populated by many Christians. As a Christian myself, I never did take it personally. However, many other soldiers—Jews, Muslims, atheists, etc.—to this day are forced to put their beliefs in the back seat while fighting for a constitution that guarantees religious freedom.  There is even a non-profit Military Religious Freedom Foundation that fights for the religious equality of American soldiers in the US military. But don't bring it up at any of the "prayer breakfasts" you might find yourself at. Think that was a joke? Join and see. Just don't spill the salt.       Source   5. When you join, so does your family—it's everyone's sacrifice. I was born in a military family. Later, when my mother was pregnant with my brother, my father decided not to re-enlist. By then, he had saved enough to start his own business. He did so and never looked back. Decisions like this are terrifying. Who do you turn your back on: Your family or your country? Of course, it's not all always black and white but it does make life tough for everyone--even for parents of soldiers. Although military marriages are no more likely to end than civilian marriages, they are faced with unique challenges that not every couple is prepared for. For example, a military spouse is not as likely to find a career. A potential employer has to face the possibility that the employee might leave with only a few day's notice if the spouse is stationed elsewhere. An Army wife understands that her soldier can be deployed at any time, many times. During this time, she holds the fort. I hate to say this, but it's a lot like being a single mom. It takes a very special woman to be an Army wife. Resources on the base are there to help, but they are overwhelmed. It's becoming so much of a problem that countless non-profit organizations are popping up to fill in the gap. There is no reason you can't have a happy marriage and great career in the military. Just remember that when you join, so does your family.   4. You will be broke. In the service, nobody gets rich. A person may join for the bonus or to pay off student loans. These are definitely great benefits. Also, the military pays for housing, food, medical, and so on. Further, bases have gyms and recreational facilities. So what's going on?  All these benefits are real, but the actual take-home pay is low. Take a look at the take-home pay chart and look towards the bottom at "Enlisted Military Pay" E-1 through E-4. That's what the youngest of our troops have to subsist on, per month. Most young, single soldiers survive, but it's our military families that are getting burned. The reasons a military family may live in poverty are many—too many.  Oddly enough, many people actually believe that poverty in the military is a myth. As a medic, I've seen military family members attempt suicide because they are living this myth. I've seen countless programs such as Army Emergency Relief and Adopt a US Soldier try to save our soldiers' families. I've seen laws such as FY 2007 Military Authorization Act passed that, among other things, clearly make it illegal for payday lenders to prey upon our soldiers.  Poverty in the military is very real. Here are 7 Reasons Our Troops are Poor . You can always join and try to strike it rich if you want to prove me wrong.       The Working Poor: Invisible in America Soldier is a blue-collar job. Thousands work from desks, cubicles and offices but in the end combat readiness requires sweat, stress and pain. Those already in combat tack on even longer hours and danger.  Buy Now    3. You will see government waste. You will burn taxpayer money. Okay, let's take a break. Hungry? Make yourself a snack: two eggs, any style (I like mine scrambled). Once you've made these eggs, throw them away, right into the garbage. Then make some more. These are for you. Enjoy!  It was heartbreaking, right? Throwing away those perfectly fine eggs? Well, that's what happens in the military. And I'm not talking about war profiteering, I'm talking about regular, day-in-day-out procedures. I used eggs in my example because eggs must be tossed if they're sitting around too long after being cooked. The military throws away a lot of food every day. When it comes to feeding the troops, it's better to throw away food rather than come up short.  Now that I think about it, the real reason KP (kitchen patrol) is so tough is not because we're scrubbing pots and pans in the steaming kitchen. The real punishment is that you see so much food being thrown out. Perfectly good food that nobody will eat but must be thrown away to prevent food poisoning. Can you throw away a whole chocolate cake no one has touched? How about a tub of ice cream? Can you do it again and again? You will if you sign up!  In fairness, there's a lot of waste in any organization. Even the most profitable companies on earth throw things away. Sometimes it takes too much time and effort to save little things like staples, paperclips, or attack helicopters. Sometimes it takes too much time and effort to bring home thousands of perfectly functioning assault rifles. It's just easier to order new ones from the defense contractors. It gives people jobs, too. Everyone wins! Well, except for the taxpayers.  This was one of the toughest parts of being in the Army for me: throwing things away when, on the other side of the base, the family of a junior enlisted soldier was living in poverty.     2. You might get seriously hurt. Casualties happen in war. War is hell. People know the risks when they join. It comes with the territory. Yeah, but I'm not talking about that.  What people don't know is that this can happen at any time, even stateside. Even if there is no ammunition or ordinance around, a soldier can get seriously and permanently injured.  After years of PT (physical training), a soldier may have problems with knees and other joints. He can easily have the same problems pro basketball players have but without the same salaries. Any civilian can get injured, but it is more likely in the military because you are more active and working longer hours with more dangerous equipment.  Medics are ready, safety policies are in place, and your buddies are looking out for you, but sometimes this isn't enough. As a medic, I've seen twenty-year-old trainees walking with canes. Canes in the 21st century.   1. You are held to a higher standard. . . forever. And the number one awful thing about the Army nobody tells you is that you will forever be held to a higher standard!  Lexington and Concorde, Gettysburg, Normandy... soldiers before you have paved the way. It is now your turn. If you think this is an honor, then you are right. What you might not know is that this is also a huge responsibility, and it will last until the day you die.  Your friends will expect you to be in great shape even after you are discharged. Your family will expect you to be calm and patient. Your coworkers will expect you to lead the way and handle stress easily. Everyone you know will expect you to win. Nobody will expect you to complain. If you oversleep, get drunk, get poor, gain weight, and so on, then you will disappoint the Army in the eyes of the civilian.  This responsibility brings out the best in soldiers and veterans, but it lasts forever, and it will never be easy.  If you can do it, if you want the chance, you are ready to join the Army! Good luck!   Nobody's stopping you Still want to join the Army?  Heck yeah! I don't sweat the small stuff  Nah. I'd better not.  Been there, done that... See results   Questions & Answers                   Related Military 7 Bizarre Things About the Army Nobody Tells You by Cecil Kenmill 3  Military 7 Awesome Things About the Army Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You by Cecil Kenmill 16  Military 10 Things the Army Teaches You (Faster Than Anyone Else) by Cecil Kenmill 1        Popular Military A Parents' Guide to Surviving Air Force Basic Training (BMTS) by mikicagle 155  Military The Truth: What Happens When You Go AWOL by James Wassinger 124  Military How to Get Army Promotion Points & Get Promoted Faster by Megan Sisko 32        What do you think? Anything to add? Submit a Comment You Must Sign In To Comment To comment on this article, you must sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account. Jay C OBrien 3 weeks ago  from Houston, TX USA I  suggest service in the National Guard instead of the military. The purpose of the Guard is to assist/help people; the purpose of the military is to kill people. Getting paid to kill makes you a paid killer. Humanitarian aid is better than bombs for overseas actions.  Leland Johnson 4 weeks ago  from Midland MI you made some good points; didn't agree with all of them, eg you don't have to be broke to be a soldier, and being one doesn't have to break you.  In fact it's a great place to learn how to manage money.  Plus, you learn a vocation and get the GI bill post service to go to college.  Not a bad deal- if you survive!  Thanks for serving.  I was Army too.  victor 2 years ago  from India It's a great hub. "You're held to a higher standard...forever" is the ultimate reward we get from the people for the sacrifice we have done. Having served in Defense for 20 years, I agree with your approach. At any point of our life when we look back the sacrifice we made, we can't find any regret. Well written.  Jay C OBrien 2 years ago  from Houston, TX USA My step father had PTSD after the Korean action.  He took it out on us, until my mother divorced him.  Someone please explain to me why we fight overseas when we are separated by two great oceans.  Anthony J Vita 3 years ago  Thank you for this great lens that will be very useful for anyone considering joining the Army.  rob2922 3 years ago  After serving 22 years in the British forces I can relate to a few of your points but not all , in any walk of life there are difficult times, But as a soldier there is also some great times and benefits, and for those who try a great sense of achievement and pride can be had that very few others ever experience.  Echo Phoenix 3 years ago  Thank you for your service and this excellent lens :D what is most frightening to me are the millions of war veterans now homeless on our streets, I have heard many of their stories and it is a disgrace the way our gov &amp; society treat the situation with such indifference. This must change, it should be a genuine priority.  austinsfaux 3 years ago  Been in the Army for 16 years, and got another 4 on my contract......I SHOULD HAVE JOINED THE AIR FORCE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! True story:  I was in charge of 2 younger soldiers, and we were with three Marines.  The senior Marine and I were of the same rank and he had 2 younger Marines with him.  The 2 young soldiers and 2 young Marines started fighting over which branch was better.  The 2 young soldiers kept saying, "Army Army Army!" The two young Marines kept saying, "Marines Marines Marines!"  The Senior Marine and I both looked at each other and said, "Air Force!"  yellowdogdemjab 3 years ago  There's nothing awful about the Army. George Washington hired Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben to institute these basic rules for service men's behaviour because They were getting their behinds kicked by the British. Colonel Steuben's "soldiers are property" mentality saved the US Army &amp; was adopted by every branch of the military. That's why we have enjoyed 327 years of military superiority. If u wanna  have more rights? Join a union! If you wanna have it easy, study web page design. To quote Drill Sgt. Har twig from The Movie Full Metal Jacket, "You know the one thing I hate is an unlocked Foot locker, if it weren't for @&amp;$);;$@@ like you, there wouldn't be any thievery in this world now would there?"  Robert Connor 3 years ago  from Michigan Its all what you do with the resources given.  Robert Connor 3 years ago  from Michigan We salute your lens and our troops!  yellowdogdemjab 3 years ago  @wiwiwi2: It just depends what your recruiter can get you qualified for, There are thousands of jobs in the navy that transition very well to civilian life. In the Navy, you will most likely spend the first 4-5 years aboard a ship, &amp; come home if you're lucky every 3-5 months. Navy Seals are combat troops, &amp; I'm sure the brave men aboard the USS Cole never thought they would be bombed by a fishing boat? If you join the Navy, try to get into some type of Radar school. That type of engineering is cutting edge. You will be qualified for many electrical engineering jobs as a radar tech. Make sure you get what you are promised from your recruiter in a contract. You don't want to end up being the chief barnacle scraper, but everyone will participate in basic maintenance duties.  centralheating24 3 years ago  Nice information about army. Not everyone knows that. Thanks!  docwhalen08 3 years ago  Not the worst experience in my life and the after service benefits are completely worth it along with other things, such as getting to serve your country.  EnthusiasmMadame 3 years ago  Thank you for serving and for the information you shared. I respect everyone who has served and who is willing to serve in our military. I have had family members who have served and some still doing so. My one regret is not having signed up when I had the opportunity.  Niktravelfit 3 years ago  Important info, thanks a lot for sharing.  jwinningcorless 3 years ago  If you are scared your pussy ass doesn't need to join. It is obviously something that not everyone can put up with. They treat you the way they do to get you mentally tough for the times you are in war and people are dying around you. You need to be able to do what is told to make sure not only survival of yourself but of the squad,platoon, company etc. If you are weak minded and weak in general joining the military isn't for you.  misserinc 3 years ago  @anonymous: I'm a future soldier and I was informed by my sergeant that the minimum score requirement is a 31 in the army but if you want better mos options a higher score would be best you say you have a score of 36 that's pretty high score  squeezemysausage 3 years ago  Why join a military that doesn't care about you, just ask that Marine sitting over in that Mexican Prison not that far from the US. No man left behind is BULL! naw,, be all you can be by raising your own family. Death isn't cool. making all these commercials like Death is cool. IT'S NOT. That child wants her Father back not a freaking picture! Tell her why he died, for nothing. Sucks.. Money hungry mafia.  HakunaMatata19 3 years ago  I am an Army wife myself. My husband joined because he couldn't find work even though he has a degree. He recently just got his security clearance after being in a year. He had debts that he had to pay which was one reason he joined. His MOS was changed because of the security clearance so now he's doing something he doesn't really want to do. It has tested my strength when he was gone for BCT and AIT and now it has tested me being away from my family. I am trying to find work and hopefully get a job on base in my field. It's hard with one car though. There are definitely a lot of positives and negatives to serving.  wiwiwi2 3 years ago  @vineliner57: hi vineliner im a male just getting out of high school I want to enlist in the navy 1:do you have to fight on the ground like in Iraq or Afghanistan 2: what are the basic things you do as a sailor like a day in life  Donna Cook 3 years ago  Amazing lens! Thank you so very much for your service.  OUTFOXprevention1 4 years ago  Interesting!  Some things I haven't thought before...  Dawn Romine 4 years ago  from Nebraska My sons are Marines and I've heard the same thing from the oldest. It's for some people and other people military life is not for them. It's the attitude you take with you in any profession, there is waste, there is politics, there is the "I have to do this to keep my job" there are on call professions. There are your jerks and slackers in many fields. But go in with your eyes open. Know that you will not change anything, accept and embrace whatever job you do in life, even if it's the military.  TerriCarr 4 years ago  Personally, I could never join the military. I am just not cut out for it. I hope the changes so prevalent elsewhere in the world sweep through the military as well. There is an article in GoodVeg....hmmm, don't have the link handy, that says that the Norwegian army is going vegetarian one day a week. Sounds to me like a sign of hope.  Hal Gall 4 years ago  from Bloomington, IN My son in law came back from a tour in Iraq with PTSD, and has been exposed to DU. I would not recommend to anyone joining the military at this moment in time, especially with the war mongers we have running our country. And yes, I did 11 years in the Navy. "Join the Navy, see the world". Well the world is 76% water!  anonymous 4 years ago  @anonymous: I think the US Army is still taking anyone who even put their name on the ASVAB and spelled it correctly. They have a habit of taking the immoral and low class whereas the other branches don't. I wouldn't let your score get you down. The Army will take you  SBPI Inc 4 years ago  Everyone has their own perspective o everything.  Agree or disagree is a freedom for all Americans.  I say, thank God for the Freedoms we have and lets ALL make sure that no foreign or domestic actions will ever cause a loss of those freedoms.  In that cause we should all act as One. Jonathan  Bigwas 4 years ago  from Philippines want to live longer,join the airforce,hooray army.  chuckholmes301 4 years ago  I did my time and enjoyed it, but don't miss the bull crap, government waste, and having someone own me.  Civilian life is great.  anonymous 4 years ago  i want to join but only got a score of 36 in my asvab idk if I should try to join the army with that score pleas help advis anything  Loretta Livingstone 5 years ago  from Chilterns, UK. An interesting lens. I don't intend to join the forces - which is  to their benefit, to be honest. But respect to those who do and who are good soldiers. I guess there are good and bad in every walk of life, but a good soldier deserves respect.  Alex-Gopson LM 5 years ago  Really interesting insight, not the type of thing you normally see.  #3 really surprised me, had no idea so much was wasted, thought it was rather the opposite. Thank you for service.  RussKeith 5 years ago  I had to laugh at the  guarding a port-o-potty line. Been There! Done That!  InfoCoop 5 years ago  Thank you for your candid writing and for your service to our country.  anonymous 5 years ago  A very interesting lens.  I didn't know the army didn't issue serial numbers anymore.  With the danger of identity theft, it would seem that the army would not put their soldiers at risk by using their Social Security number.  dream1983 5 years ago  Interesting lens, well done! Thumbs up  rawwwwwws lm 5 years ago  WOW.. Thanksf or sharing.  TwistedWiseman 5 years ago  I done my time, barely could stand it, the amount of human borderline stupidity is amazing! I can't stand it when one mamas boy starts whining that it's hard...NO IT'S NOT YOU PATHETIC IDIOT, deal with it.  combat-support 5 years ago  Resiliency training; hunt the good stuff.. Over 15 years of service between the Army and Army National Guard in support of OIF.  I love it, but doesn't mean everyone will, I do agree with many of your points, we humans are fragile.  Phoenix2361 5 years ago  Yes, this is the stuff the recruiters don't tell you.  Glad you did.  anonymous 5 years ago  As a citizen I am aware and thankful of the many sacrifices our Army does for our country.  WriterJanis2 5 years ago  This has been a real eye opener.  flycatcherrr 5 years ago  As a Canadian civilian, what I know about the US military is somewhere a fathom below nada, but I found this an interesting glimpse into what's really a very different world. You write very well and engagingly, Sarge; I'm always keen to see what you'll come up with next.  Michelle 5 years ago  from Central Ohio, USA Army retiree with 22 years. Yes, the Army has it's faults. It also has it's great points. How about a top 10 list of those too?! Great lens!  Melissa Miotke 5 years ago  from Arizona It seems criminal that those in the army are broke. They should be paid well for their service.  intermarks 5 years ago  Sometime, some people need to experience by their own self for them to believe it.  Nicole Pellegrini 5 years ago  from New Jersey A very thought-provoking and honest lens. Your personal experience really shines though and gives people a lot to think about before they consider joining.  Trixiesmom2u 5 years ago  I enjoyed this lens. My son was in Iraq in 2006-2007 as a gunner for a generals security squad in Baghdad.  Would love to also see the other argument, 10 Great Things etc.  IMKZRNU2 5 years ago  from Pacific Northwest My son is considering joining the armed forces when he turns 18...this lens has some very good information for him. Thanks!  cgbroome 5 years ago  This lens just makes me more proud of the men and women willing to make sacrifices for the rest of us.  Thank you!  Paul 5 years ago  from Liverpool, England Interesting and entertaining.  kburns421 lm 5 years ago  By the way, Catch-22 is one of my favorite books. Intense with a somewhat horrifying glimpse into what soldiers go through at times but still entertaining.  kburns421 lm 5 years ago  This is a great lens. It's very well written and gives people more information to make the right decision, information that they don't often get. It's good to know though as many people rush into the army expecting something it's not.       About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others. Sign In Join Military Show All Categories Connect with us About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.  working                        Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service  If you're worried about the dangers of enlisting, you should think about how dangerous these alternatives are -- and how much less job security you might have.            Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )    Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM       America loves its military. The vitriol heaped on returning Vietnam veterans in the 1960s and 1970s -- most of whom had no choice in the matter of their deployment -- caused such a public backlash that most Americans swung hard from anger to hero worship, and our default reaction to military service has been hero worship ever since. And why shouldn't it be? After all, no other profession explicitly asks its workforce to make the ultimate sacrifice.   Source: User DVIDSHUB via Flickr.   However, just because military servicemen or servicewomen might someday be asked to die in service to their country doesn't mean that they will . In fact, modern military service isn't even America's deadliest job! There are certainly a number of serious factors to consider before joining the military, including the commitment to sign away at least four years of your life and the stress of essentially being on call 25 hours a day (that's not a typo) for your entire enlistment, but if the threat of death is your primary concern, you may want to dig into the realities of U.S. military casualties before making up your mind.  Can you keep the peace and keep your life? Make no mistake -- people can and do die during military service. The Defense Manpower Data Center, one of the Department of Defense's analytical groups, has recorded 48,834 military personnel deaths from 1980 to 2010, which works out to 1,575 deaths per year. However, the American military is a huge organization, which has never slipped below 1.35 million active-duty servicemembers in any given year across all branches. There were 1.7 million active servicemembers on average per year from 1980 to 2010, and when you add in the full-time equivalent service hours of reserve forces, the United States has fielded nearly 1.9 million full-time equivalent servicemembers each year for the past three decades.  Because enlistment figures fluctuate from year to year, assessing military casualties based on the rate of death per 100,000 serving each year gives us a more consistent picture of the dangers faced by our servicemembers. Over these three decades of tracking, 82 servicemembers per 100,000 have died each year to all possible causes , and the leading cause of death is probably not the one you'd most suspect:  Source: Defense Casualty Analysis System.  Accidents are by far the most consistent danger to military personnel, surpassing all other causes of death in every year tracked except the five (2004 through 2007 and 2010) most identified with major actions in Iraq. In fact, before 2002, the U.S. military endured only two years (1987, when an Iraqi jet attacked the U.S.S. Stark , and 1991, during Operation Desert Storm) of combat-related casualties in excess of one servicemember per 100,000. Accident-related deaths, on the other hand, while in decline since 1980 (reaching a three-decade low of 25.2 per 100,000 servicemembers in 2010), still account for the lion's share of all military deaths, and have been responsible for an average of 40.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year since 1980.       Had the United States not mired itself in first "liberating" and then policing of Iraq, the average number of combat fatalities would be far lower, as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan didn't surpass deaths in Iraq until 2009. Even though American troops withdrew from Iraq at the end of 2011, total U.S. military deaths in that country are still roughly twice as high as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan. Despite this uptick in combat deaths, illness (which claimed 14.3 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) and suicide (which claimed 11.8 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) were still greater scourges of the military than battle, which has been responsible for an average of 9.3 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year from 1980 through 2010. However, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq did push the number of combat-related deaths up significantly, to a rate of 27.7 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010 . This higher fatality rate pushed the overall military death rate up to 93.4 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010.  But serving in the military isn't even the most dangerous job in America, even if we focus only on the period after the opening of these two combat theaters. Would you like to know what's more dangerous than military service?   Source: Kyle Rush via Flickr.   Logging: 127.8 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 You're a lumberjack, but you might not be OK, because you work in the most dangerous occupation in America, with 45 more deaths per 100,000 workers than the armed forces. In the three decades we've examined, the military never suffered more deaths per 100,000 personnel than the logging industry suffered in 2012. The military's worst year was 2007, when combat deaths hit modern highs of 52.7 per 100,000 servicemembers and total military deaths reached 121.4 per 100,000 servicemembers.  Fishing: 117.0 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 The high death rate of fishermen (or fisherfolk, if you prefer something gender-neutral) might not be so much of a surprise, as this is a profession that has a reality show -- Deadliest Catch -- that tells you it's dangerous right in the title! The military's annual death rate only surpassed that of the fishing industry in 2007, and its three-decade average death rate is nearly 35 personnel per 100,000 lower than it is for fishing.       If you're looking for job security and personal safety, you'd actually be better off joining the military than working as a lumberjack or in the fishing industry. Military service will -- unless you do something horrendously improper -- guarantee at least four years of pay, which should generally be at least $20,000 per year (pay grade E-3, which is a private first class in the Army or a seaman in the Navy, pays $21,700 per year), much of which will be take-home because of general military policy of providing room and board to servicemembers. Loggers, on the other hand, make a median salary of only $33,600 per year, nearly identical to the $33,400 median salary in the fishing industry. The logging industry is expected to see a 9% decline in its employment numbers by 2022, and the fishing industry is expected to lose 5% of its workforce during the same time frame.  Nearly any military servicemember with career ambitions is likely to earn more than the median logging or fishing salary after several years, and some may even start off earning more -- the lowest pay grade for the officer corps (a second lieutenant in the Army or an ensign in the navy) equates to an annual salary of $34,900.  Combat isn't that common If you're still concerned about the risk of death in combat, keep in mind that the military won't have its boots on the ground in hostile countries all the time -- at least not as long as voters have a say in the matter and choose to elect less hawkish politicians. Even so, there were still several other jobs more likely to kill you than combat in the military during this period of global police action:  Sources: Defense Casualty Analysis System and U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. *Note: military casualty rates are from 2001 through 2010 and pay grade used is E-4. Other occupational casualty rates and median salaries used from BLS data and are current through 2012.  The military certainly isn't the safest place to earn a living, but it's hardly the death trap many concerned parents and nervous would-be enlistees might think. In fact, analysis performed by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center found that death rates were significantly lower in the Navy (60.9 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) and in the Air Force (47.4 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) from 1990 through 2011 than for the military as a whole -- Marines, at 103.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year, are taxed harder than any other military branch, but even this heightened death rate doesn't surpass that suffered by logging or fishing workers.       No one should join the military expecting it to be a cushy cakewalk, but at the same time, it's worth keeping in mind that there are deadlier jobs with less job security than military service. There are plenty of other considerations as well. Military life can still be very dangerous, even if it's not deadly, and these casualty figures don't account for grievous but survivable wounds that can have lifelong impacts on a servicemember's life. However, barring another major conflict -- and since it took about 30 years for Americans to get over Vietnam before committing to another long-term fight in Iraq, it seems unlikely that the military will be plunged into a new quagmire any time soon -- we should probably expect military casualty rates to keep falling in the coming years.     Add Alex Planes on Google+ , or follow him on Twitter, @TMFBiggles , for more insight into markets, history, and technology.  Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )     Alex Planes specializes in the deep analysis of tech, energy, and retail companies, with a particular focus on the ways new or proposed technologies can (and will) shape the future. He is also a dedicated student of financial and business history, often drawing on major events from the past to help readers better understand what's happening today and what might happen tomorrow. Connect with Alex on LinkedIn or Twitter for more news and insight:      Follow @TMFBiggles          Article Info     Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM   Markets               Read More     5 Years From Now You'll Wish You Grabbed These Stocks    How the Dow's Top Dividend-Paying Stocks Have Fared in 2016    A Look at President Trump's Stock Portfolio    What Investors Missed in the Stock Market Last Week    The Top Tech ETF of the Week                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service @themotleyfool #stocks                                          Log In  ·  Sign Up         Search Entire Site Search Forum Advanced Forum Search Expand for more options.      + Discuss & Interact Forum, Reviews & More        Forum  Forum Home  University Forums A-Z    Top Forums  College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League    Featured Discussions           + Find a College Search For Your Best Fit        College Search Tool   Find the best school—for you.  Use this tool to search by categories such as major and location. You can then use filters to fine tune your results.  Start Searching     Find matching schools based on...  How Do I Start Choosing a College?  Before you ask which colleges to apply to, please consider the following.  Mistakes College Process Rookies Make  Majors and College Search  Your College Major: What to Choose?  Campus Visit Tips When Tours Won’t Fit    Recent Campus Reviews          + Read &
            Learn College Articles & Advice        Articles & Blogs  Browse All Articles  Expert Blogs   Admit This Expert opinions on the college admissions process!    Ask the Dean Read answers to questions about the college admissions process, financial aid, and college search by College Confidential’s resident expert!       Article Categories  College Search  Preparing for College  College Admissions  Paying for College  Campus Life  Majors & Careers  Graduate School  Studying in the U.S.    Popular Tags:       The Latest          + Free
            Resources Tools for Students & Parents        Scholarship Search  Search from over 3 million scholarships worth more than $13 billion.  Find Money    College Search Tool    Start Searching    Online Calculators  Academic Index Calculator  We'll help you estimate your AI, which is used by some schools to summarize the academic
                                accomplishments of applicants.  Financial Aid Calculator  College affordability is important for just about everyone these days, and it's handy to
                                get an idea of how much aid you might be eligible for.    More Good Stuff  25 Tips from the Dean eBook  Recommended Books  College Rankings                 Welcome to College Confidential!  The leading college-bound community on the web    Sign Up For Free   Join for FREE ,
            and start talking with other members, weighing in on community discussions,
            and more.  Also, by registering and logging in you'll see fewer ads and pesky
            welcome messages (like this one!)    As a CC member, you can:   Reply to threads, and start your own.  Post reviews of your campus visits.  Find hundreds of pages of informative articles.  Search from over 3 million scholarships.           Forum Home  Latest Posts  Activity  Unanswered Best Of...     Find A College   College Search  CampusVibe     Top Forums   College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League          Featured Threads    Are Waiting Lists Out of Control?  — Dave_Berry    4 Ways to Increase Odds of Winning College Scholarships  — Dave_Berry    Low-Income, First-Generation Students Have—Finally—Established a Beachhead at Ivy League School  — Dave_Berry    Princeton, Others Aim to Accept More Low-Income Students  — Dave_Berry              Home  /   College Discussion  /  College Confidential Cafe    We are excited to announce a new role on College Confidential: The Forum Champion! Read all about it and apply now .  New Discussion I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008    edited January 2008   in College Confidential Cafe      I really want to enlist in the national guard. But at the same time I don't want to fight in Iraq and get killed.  Even if I don't fight...is there a possibility I will die? Please Help!  Post edited by ishkabob on January 2008 0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook       « 1 2 3 »      Go  Replies to: I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       #1     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       bum 10 char  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #2     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       your chance of dying in the guard is not much higher than your chance of dying at home. your chance of getting injured is pretty high if you do enter combat, but dying in combat is rare.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #3     GoldShadow    Registered User  Posts: 6,160  Senior Member      January 2008       CC is probably not the right place to ask this question.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #4     tomatoking    Registered User  Posts: 847  Member      January 2008       don't worry.there are re-spawn points.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #5     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       whats a re-spawn point?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #6     snoopyiscool    Registered User  Posts: 18,082  Senior Member      January 2008       If you go to Iraq there is always a possibility to get killed. If you don't want a chance of going to Iraq that isn't going to happen.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #7     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       And -- how do you feel about being expected to kill other people? If you're OK with killing enemy soldiors, how'd you feel about accidentally killing civilians including children?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #8     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime? and of course there is the certainty that we will all die at some point.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #9     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       well, i don't want to kill anyone....I don't want to be on the front line  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #10     runforfun529    Registered User  Posts: 2,135  Member      January 2008       You don't have to go into the infantry in order to join the national guard.   www.1-800-GO-GUARD.com | MOS LIST   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #11     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       "but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime?"  Actually, there's not a large possibility of being killed anywhere when you are a relatively young U.S. citizen. Most people in the U.S. live until their 70s.  Certainly, going into combat places one at a higher than normal risk of being killed or maimed (and the injuries that people are surviving in this war are horrendous.).  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #12     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       A quick Google yielded this USA Today article from 2004. You could check to find more current info.  "WASHINGTON — In a reversal of trends from past wars, part-time soldiers in the Army National Guard are about one-third more likely to be killed in Iraq than full-time active-duty soldiers serving there, a USA TODAY analysis of Pentagon statistics shows. According to figures furnished by the military branches, the active Army has sent about 250,000 soldiers to Iraq, and 622 have been killed. That works out to one death for every 402 soldiers who have deployed. About 37,000 Army Guard soldiers have been sent to Iraq since the war began and 140 have died there — one fatality for every 264 soldiers who have served, or about a 35% higher death rate.  There are several reasons for the greater death rates among so-called part-time soldiers, who generally drill one weekend a month and two weeks during the summer when there's no war. The Pentagon has called up thousands of part-time troops for tours of a year or more in Iraq. Some of the most dangerous missions, including driving convoys and guarding bases and other facilities, frequently are assigned to Guard and reserve troops. Iraqi insurgents have attacked convoys with roadside bombs and rocket-propelled grenades, and a Tennessee Guardsman publicly complained to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week about the lack of armor on some vehicles...."   USATODAY.com - Rate of Guard deaths higher   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #13     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       AP story from 2005: "WASHINGTON — The National Guard and Reserves are suffering a strikingly higher share of U.S. casualties in Iraq, their portion of American military deaths nearly doubling since last year.  Reservists have accounted for one-quarter of all U.S. deaths since the Iraq war began, but the proportion has grown over time. It was 10 percent for the five weeks it took to topple Baghdad in the spring of 2003, and 20 percent for 2004 as a whole.  The trend accelerated this year. For the first nine months of 2005 reservists accounted for 36 percent of U.S. deaths, and for August and September it was 56 percent, according to Pentagon figures.  The Army National Guard, Army Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve accounted for more than half of all U.S. deaths in August and in September — the first time that has happened in consecutive months. The only other month in which it even approached 50 percent was June 2004..."   The Seattle Times: Nation & World: Reservist deaths high in Iraq   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #14     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       this sucks....i want to help me country but if I do.....I know I'll probably die...thats my luck!  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #15     kjcastillo1990    Registered User  Posts: 422  Member      January 2008       According to my sis, there's a higher chance of you getting shot in Washington DC alone than getting killed in Iraq as a National Guardsman. My sister is in the National Guard, and she was deployed last month. She is now in Baghdad, and her role there is being military police (that is, patrolling areas, guarding prisons, other guarding posts, etc).  If you are not in the field, the one of the only risks you have is being injured by an I.E.D (improvised explosive device) All those articles in the previous posts were from 2-3 years ago--I'm pretty sure the death rates in Iraq have gone down by a lot now.  Joining the National Guard is a really big responsibility, but you also gain a lot of respect in doing so. The army itself will train you to become a soldier as well as a leader. It's the best way to help your country....that is, if you're up to it. ;)   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook        « 1 2 3 »      Go    This discussion has been closed.                 Helpful Links    Home  College Search  Admissions  Paying For College  College Rankings  Campus Life    Online Degrees  College Topics  Ask The Dean  Discussion  About  Contact    Press  Privacy  Rules  Terms of Service  Site Map      About College Confidential  Welcome to the leading college-bound community on the Web!  Here you'll find hundreds of pages of articles about choosing a college, getting into the college you want, how to pay for it, and much more. You'll also find the Web's busiest discussion community related to college admissions, and our CampusVibe section!         ©2001-2018 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WORLDWIDE                                          News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                                               News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                  News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                             Live Science Planet Earth  The Odds of Dying  By Laura Geggel, Senior Writer | February 9, 2016 06:56am ET                            MORE           Cataclysmic storms took the lives of about 60 people and lightning killed 25 people in the United States in 2014.  Credit: Solarseven | Shutterstock.com     Everyone dies of something, but after slogging through the daily news, you'd think most people die from terrorism, shark attacks and gas explosions. But are these tragedies — not to mention deaths from lightning strikes, plane crashes and tsunamis — actually top killers in the United States?  Not really.  Even combined, these incidents killed far fewer people than the most deadly illness — heart disease, which took the lives of more than 614,000 people in the United States in 2014, accounting for about 23 percent of all deaths in the country, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  To separate the deaths that make headlines from those that are far more common, Live Science investigated the odds of dying from various causes. We used the CDC's Wonder database for 2014 data and other sources, and found that you're more likely to die of Alzheimer's disease (about 29 deaths per 100,000 people in the U.S.) than you are from contact with a venomous snake or lizard (there were just five such deaths in 2014).  In total, about 2.6 million people died in the United States in 2014, according to the CDC. To put this number into perspective, that means about 824 people died for every 100,000 people in the country. (Keep this statistic in mind, as we'll be giving death rates per 100,000 people throughout this article.) Worldwide, an estimated 56 million people died in 2012, the most recent year for which numbers on worldwide deaths are available from the World Health Organization (WHO).  Although Hollywood advised us (in no fewer than five of its blockbusters) to "Die Hard," there are a ton of ways to die. Here's a look at how many people die from common, unexpected and even theoretical events, and the science behind those numbers. [ 9 Healthy Habits You Can Do in 1 Minute (Or Less) ]   Ways to Die    Top 2 Deadly Diseases   Top Killers   Respiratory Diseases & Accidents   More Diseases   Drug Overdoses   Animal Attacks   Transportation   Terrorism & Homicides   Other Scary Ways to Die   Natural Disasters       Top 2 Deadly Diseases    In decades past, infectious diseases were the No. 1 killer, "but with the advent of antibiotics and treatment of infectious diseases, people started to live longer," said Dr. Maan Fares, a staff cardiologist at Cleveland Clinic. With many infections now conquered, people's lifestyle choices — including whether they smoke, how they eat and how much they exercise — are catching up with them, and causing conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol , Fares told Live Science.  So, it may come as no surprise that the top two killers — heart disease and cancer — account for roughly half of all deaths in the United States. About 193 per 100,000 people died from cardiovascular problems, such as heart attacks, in the United States in 2014. Worldwide, cardiovascular diseases killed 17.5 million people, accounting for 3 of every 10 deaths in 2012, the WHO reported.  People's risk of heart disease rises with smoking, sedentary lifestyles and poor sleep . To lower your risk of dying of heart disease, you can exercise, eat colorful fruits and vegetables (and fiber), and drink less alcohol.       Chart of the top causes of death in the U.S. for 2014.  Credit: by Karl Tate, Infographics artist    Cancer placed second, with about 186 deaths per 100,000 people in the United States. Some cancers took more lives than others. The top killers, lung and bronchial cancers, killed about 155,000 people in 2014, or about 49 deaths per 100,000 people. Colon and rectal cancers claimed about 16 lives per 100,000 people, and breast cancer took about 13 lives per 100,000 people. Pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer followed, with about 12.7 and 9 deaths per 100,000 people, respectively. [ 7 Cancers You Can Ward Off with Exercise ]  "We still don't know what causes cancer, but we do realize that each cancer is different, and the risk factors associated with each is very different," said Dr. Rupal O'Quinn, a cardio-oncologist at the University of Pennsylvania. People with cancer are living longer and sometimes even beating their diagnosis, largely thanks to cancer screenings, organ transplants and targeted therapies (newer drugs that aim to specifically kill cancer cells, rather than the broader approach of chemotherapy drugs), O'Quinn said.  There were 3 million cancer survivors in the country in 1971, and more than 12 million in 2012, according to a study in the International Journal of Medical Sciences . But there is still much to be learned about cancer, she said. Screening cannot look for every type of cancer, such as ovarian cancer, which may explain why some cancers claim more lives than others, O'Quinn said.  A person's cancer risk may also vary according to region. For instance, esophageal cancer kills about 4 per 100,000 people a year in the United States, but about 140 per 100,000 people in Central Asian countries such as Pakistan, according to a 2004 study in the journal Annals of Oncology .  The reason? Researchers suspect that the higher rates of esophageal cancer in Central Asia are linked to the use of chewing tobacco — a habit common in Pakistan — as well as the "drinking of very hot beverages such as tea and Kawa [or kahwa ], which are again, extremely common in Pakistan," the researchers wrote in the study. (Drinking scalding-hot beverages is linked to an increased risk of esophageal cancer, a 2009 study in northern Iran found.)  People's risk of cancer generally rises the longer they live, but also with smoking, using tanning beds and sitting too much . To lower your risk of dying of cancer, you can get recommended screenings, exercise and eat a healthy diet.      Top Killers  The first eight diseases listed in the table below were the top eight killers in the United States in 2014, whereas the rest are shown for comparison purposes.      Cause of death  Number of U.S. deaths  Rate of deaths     1. Cardiovascular disease   614,348   193 per 100,000     2. Cancer   591,699   186 per 100,000     3. Chronic lower respiratory disease   147,101   46 per 100,000     4. Accidents   136,053   43 per 100,000     5. Strokes   133,103   42 per 100,000     6. Alzheimer's disease   93,541   29 per 100,000     7. Diabetes   76,488   24 per 100,000     8. Influenza and pneumonia   55,227   17 per 100,000    Drug overdoses  47,055  15 per 100,000    Kidney disease  48,146  15 per 100,000    Intentional self-harm  42,773  13 per 100,000    Septicemia  38,940  12 per 100,000    Liver disease  38,170  12 per 100,000    Transportation accidents  37,195  12 per 100,000    Parkinson's disease  26,150  8 per 100,000    Firearm assault  10,945  3 per 100,000    HIV  6,721  2 per 100,000    Pedestrian deaths  6,258  2 per 100,000         Respiratory Diseases & Accidents  In the U.S., after cancer, the next two largest killers are respiratory diseases and accidents. Respiratory diseases such as bronchitis, emphysema and asthma killed about 46 per 100,000 people in 2014, the CDC found. People may lower their respiratory risk by kicking their cigarettes to the curb. Moreover, some evidence suggests that asthma may be prevented in young children if they live with a dog or are exposed to allergens early in life .  Avoiding accidents is a whole other ball game. Accidents include a whole range of unintentional injuries and accounted for about 43 deaths per 100,000 people, or about 5 percent of all deaths in the United States in 2014, the CDC reported. A word to the wise: Remember to take off your headphones if you're walking around town (it can distract you from cars), and don't speed while driving.  The fifth top killer in 2014 was cerebrovascular disease (strokes), which claimed about 42 lives per 100,000 people in the United States.      More Diseases  Other health conditions also took a toll. Influenza and pneumonia (the two conditions are lumped together in CDC statistics) killed about 17 per 100,000 people in the United States, or about 55,000 people in total. Of those, about 23,700 were people age 85 or older, and 186 were infants younger than 1 year old. But many cases of flu can be prevented through vaccination. The 2014 flu shot decreased people's chances of getting the flu by only 19 percent, but the vaccines developed between 2012 and 2013 decreased their chances by 56 percent , Live Science found.  Suicide took the lives of about 42,700 individuals in 2014, meaning that there were about 13 suicides per 100,000 people in the United States that year. It was the 10th leading cause of death in the United States, topping death by assault, which took about 13,000 lives that same year. The number for the suicide hotline is (800) 273-8255.       A 3D look at the HIV virus.  Credit: Sebastian Kaulitzki/Shutterstock    On other fronts, modern medicine is helping people manage their maladies. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease killed about 6,700 people in the United States in 2014, or about 2 per 100,000 people. That's substantially fewer deaths than the virus caused in 1999 (the first year listed in CDC Wonder), when HIV took the lives of about 14,800 people, or about 5 per 100,000 people. [ Extending Life: 7 Ways to Live Past 100 ]  Worldwide, about 1.2 million people, including 150,000 children younger than age 15, died of HIV-related causes in 2014, WHO reported . That's about a 57 percent decrease from 1999, when about 2.8 million people worldwide died of the disease, according to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS . The drop is largely due to increased access to a drug regimen called antiretroviral therapy (ART), which keeps the virus at low levels within the body, and fewer people contracting the disease, the WHO said .  Other diseases that plague the world are very uncommon in the United States. For instance, malaria killed eight people in the U.S. in 2014 but caused 584,000 deaths worldwide, 90 percent of them in Africa, according to the WHO . Moreover, tuberculosis killed 493 people in the United States, or 0.2 per 100,000 people in 2014. Worldwide, the respiratory disease killed 1.5 million people, the WHO found .      Drug Overdoses  A total of 47,055 people died of drug overdoses in the United States in 2014, or 14.7 deaths per 100,000 people. The number is alarming, as it represents an increase of 6.5 percent over the previous year, the CDC said.  "More persons died from drug overdoses in the United States in 2014 than during any previous year on record," the CDC wrote in a Jan. 1 report . "In 2014, there were approximately one and a half times more drug overdose deaths in the United States than deaths from motor vehicle crashes." Deaths from opioids (including opioid pain relievers and heroin) came in at 9 deaths per 100,000 people in 2014 — a 14 percent increase from 2013. In fact, 61 percent of drug overdose deaths included some type of opioid, the CDC said.      Animal Attacks       Beware the mosquito.  Credit: James Gathany. Provided by CDC  Paul I. Howell, MPH; Prof. Frank Hadley Collins    Many people automatically think of sharks when they imagine deadly animals, but they're far from a leading cause of death. CDC Wonder doesn't always mention the exact animal, but it noted that nobody in the U.S. died from " contact with a marine animal " such as a whale or a shark in 2014 (although three people died in this category in 2013).  However, in 2014, six people died after being bitten or stung by a nonvenomous insect, 36 people died after being bitten or mauled by a dog and 83 died after being struck by a mammal (not including dogs), such as a cow or a horse. But rest assured — no one in the U.S. reportedly died from rat bites or crocodile or alligator attacks in 2014. Furthermore, there were no deaths from "contact with plant thorns and spines and sharp leaves," though it's good to know that's a category the CDC can use just in case. [ In Photos: The 10 Deadliest Animals ]  Worldwide, the deadliest animal (after the mosquito, which kills people with the illness-causing pathogens it carries) is perhaps the snake. Snakebites kill 20,000 people globally each year, according to a 2008 study published in the journal PLOS Medicine .      Transportation  In the United States, people are much more likely to die while walking on a roadway than from tuberculosis or getting mauled by an animal, the odds show. In the United States, there were about 37,000 deaths from "transport accidents" (including car, train, motorcycle and boat accidents). This number includes 6,200 pedestrians who died in transportation collisions — such as crashes with cars, trucks, bikes and trains — meaning that 2 pedestrians died per 100,000 people.  In fact, more pedestrians died in the United States than motorcyclists (about 4,100 deaths) and bicyclists (about 900 deaths) combined, according to CDC Wonder. But death rates from vehicle accidents are still the highest: More than 7,800 people died in a car, pickup truck, van, heavy transport vehicle (such as a semitruck) or bus accident in 2014. That's 2.5 per 100,000 people, according to CDC Wonder.  Of the deaths due to traffic accidents in the U.S., 31 percent were due to alcohol, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Of the motor-vehicle-related deaths, speeding accounted for 28 percent, distracted driving for 10 percent and drowsy drivers for almost 3 percent, the NHTSA said.      Terrorism & Homicides  In 2014, there were more than 32,700 deaths related to terrorism worldwide, according to the U.S. Department of State . (The department has yet to post data from 2015, and undoubtedly, these numbers have increased due to the conflicts in Syria and elsewhere.)  More than 6,200 of the 32,700 people (19 percent) killed were perpetrators. These people died after committing suicide, by accident or from security forces or victims responding to the attacks, the department reported. The terrorist attacks happened in 95 countries, but 78 percent of all terrorism fatalities took place in Iraq, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Syria, the department said.  Large attacks increased from 2013 to 2014. In 2013, there were two attacks that killed more than 100 people, but in 2014, there were 20 attacks of this size. Moreover, the death count increased by 81 percent in 2014 compared to in 2013, largely because of terrorist activities in Iraq, Afghanistan and Nigeria, the department reported.  Of course, it's hard to define terrorism, but the department makes an attempt. Terrorism is a violent act "aimed at attaining a political, economic, religious or social goal" that seeks to "coerce, intimidate or convey some other message to a larger audience," according to the report. Terrorism also breaks international humanitarian law by targeting "noncombatants," or innocent people.  In the United States, about another 10,900 people died from an assault by a handgun, rifle, shotgun, larger firearm or unspecified firearm discharge in 2014, accounting for 3.4 deaths per 100,00 people, the CDC reported. (In this case, " firearm assaults " do not include suicides, unintentional shootings, shootings of undetermined intent, justifiable shootings, war or terrorism.)      Other Scary Ways to Die  For comparison, the table below lists the deaths caused by some of the more sensationalized means, also in 2014. These figures tend to vary significantly from year to year, and in the case of some — like deaths from venomous spiders — can be just a handful, or zero. They tend to be so low that when the rate of deaths per 100,000 people is calculated, the result is insignificantly tiny.      Cause of Death  Number of U.S. deaths in 2014 (total deaths = 2.6 million)    Dengue fever  2    Venomous snakes or lizards  5    Nonvenomous insects  6    Venomous spiders  7    Malaria  8    Nonpowered aircraft (Ex: hot air balloons, hang gliders)  13    Lightning  25    Struck or bitten by dog  36    Salmonella infection  45    Cataclysmic storm  61    Mauled by a mammal (not including dogs)  83    Avalanche, landslide or other Earth movement  85    Contact with venomous plants or animals (Ex: bees, scorpions)  91    Explosions (including gas)  116         Natural Disasters  Preparedness can make a world of difference when natural disasters strike. Take tsunamis, for instance. Since 2000 B.C., there have been about 2,400 tsunamis that have killed at least 500,000 people, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). But the 2004 Sumatra and 2011 Tohoku (Fukushima) tsunamis were the deadliest waves in recent history. [ Fukushima Radiation Leak: 5 Things You Should Know ]  About 300,000 people were in danger during each of these disasters. But about 230,000 people died in the Sumatra tsunami, whereas an estimated 16,000 died in Japan , according to Vasily Titov, an oceanographer at the NOAA Center for Tsunami Research in Seattle. The difference came down to tsunami education programs and warning systems in Japan, Titov said. "About the same amount of people were exposed for both events, but 10 percent of them died in Japan and about 90 percent were killed in Sumatra ," Titov told Live Science.  Fewer people died in Japan because "everyone is very much in tune with the tsunami hazard," and hundreds of thousands of people evacuated to shelters during and after the catastrophe, he said.       The 2011 tsunami in Tohoku, Japan, killed about 16,000 people and wiped out entire communities. With more people living in coastal regions every year, the risk of tsunami deaths only goes up.  Credit: Dylan McCord. U.S. Navy    Tsunami readiness may help save lives in the future. Nowadays, people who live on the coastlines of large bodies of water, especially the Pacific and Indian oceans, are at risk, and these populations are only growing. In 2000, about 625.2 million people worldwide lived in low-elevation coastal zones, according to a 2015 study published in the journal PLOS ONE . The researchers estimated that between 879 million and 949 million people will live in these low-elevation areas by 2030, making tsunami education and warning systems paramount.  But preparedness appears to be paying off. In 2010, an 8.8-magnitude earthquake in Chile triggered a tsunami, and together, the earthquake and tsunami killed about 500 people. The tsunami was responsible for fewer than 200 of the deaths, Titov said. In 2015, an 8.3-magnitude earthquake in Chile also triggered a tsunami, but the country immediately evacuated about 1 million people away from the coastline, and only five people died in the catastrophe, Titov said.  To survive a tsunami, create a safety kit and plan, so you and your family know where to meet and how to evacuate to higher ground, Ready.gov advises. Also — needless to say — stay away from the beach.  Unlike for tsunamis, there is no warning system for earthquakes. But few large tremblors have struck populated areas of the United States in recent years. A total of eight people died from earthquakes from 1999 to 2014 in the United States, the CDC reported. Worldwide, earthquakes have killed tens of thousands of people. An estimated 629 people died from earthquakes in 2012; about 22,000 in 2011; and 320,120 in 2010, largely from the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in Haiti, according to the U.S. Geological Survey .  Avalanches and landslides also caused havoc. A total of 549 people died in these natural disasters from 1999 to 2014 in the United States. The deadliest year was 2014, with 85 deaths, including 43 from the catastrophic landslide in Oso , Washington.  Earth could also experience extraterrestrial threats from asteroids. After all, an asteroid is thought to have wiped out 75 percent of all species (including the dinosaurs) about 65 million years ago, at the end of the Cretaceous period . But no human death ever recorded was due to an asteroid, so it's hard to give the odds of dying from one of these space rocks, said Lindley Johnson, NASA's planetary defense officer. (A meteorite was thought to have killed a man in southern India on Feb. 6, 2016, but NASA has since reported the event was more consistent with a land-based explosion than a space rock.) [ When Space Attacks: The 6 Craziest Meteor Impacts ]  "It is so rare, there has never been a scientifically confirmed report of someone being killed by a meteorite impact in recorded history," NASA's Planetary Defense Officer Lindley Johnson told Live Science in February. "There have been reports of injuries, but even those were extremely rare before the Chelyabinsk event three years ago."  Lightning is far more deadly, with 25 people getting zapped by a bolt in the United States in 2014. Cataclysmic storms (such as hurricanes, tornadoes, dust storms and tidal waves — which are shallow water waves) are even worse, killing 61 people in the country in 2014.  So take precautions, caring for your health and your safety, lest you become a statistic. But don't stress about the freak events — odds are, you'll die of something much more mundane.   Editor's Note : This story was first published in 2005 and has been updated with the most recent data. Live Science will continue to update the odds of dying as new numbers are released.   Follow Laura Geggel on Twitter @LauraGeggel . Follow Live Science @livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Original article on Live Science .       You'd Also Like         Countries with the Deadliest Roads Revealed  LiveScience         100 Years of Infectious Disease Deaths in US: Study Shows What's Changed  LiveScience         Glen Campbell's Death: How Does Alzheimer's Kill?  LiveScience         America's No. 1 Killer Is Changing  LiveScience              Author Bio     Laura Geggel, Senior Writer    As a senior writer for Live Science, Laura Geggel covers general science, including the environment and amazing animals. She has written for The New York Times, Scholastic, Popular Science and Spectrum, a site covering autism research. Laura grew up in Seattle and studied English literature and psychology at Washington University in St. Louis before completing her graduate degree in science writing at NYU. When not writing, you'll find Laura playing Ultimate Frisbee. Follow Laura on Google+ .    Laura Geggel, Senior Writer on                Science Newsletter: Subscribe    Submit      Follow Us                 Most Popular      This Pouched Rat Can Sniff Out Tuberculosis in Kids       SpaceX Not to Blame for Loss of Top-Secret Spy Satellite       Weird Neutrinos Can't Quite Explain Matter's Huge Riddle Yet       Restroom Hand Dryers Are Blowing Bacteria Everywhere       What Happens If You Get Injected with Embalming Fluid?                         Home About Us    Company   Company Info  About Us  Contact Us  Advertise with Us  Using Our Content  Licensing & Reprints  Terms of Use  Copyright Policy  Privacy Policy     Network   Top Ten Reviews  Tom's Guide  Laptop Mag  Tom's Hardware  Business News Daily  Tom's IT Pro  Space.com  Live Science  Active Junky  ShopSavvy  AnandTech  Dignifyed       FOLLOW US            Subscribe    SUBMIT        Copyright © All Rights Reserved.                  This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Navy SEALs  U.S. Air Force  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Navy (USN)  U.S. Army  United States Armed Forces  Probability (statistics)  Death and Dying  Military What are the chances of me dying in different branches of the armed forces? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 19 Answers   Eric Tang , Officer at U.S. Army Answered Feb 27, 2012 · Upvoted by  Paul Frick , Former infantry Staff Sergeant, United States Marine Corps. 3 combat tours, 3 years as an Embassy G… and  Stephen Adams , U. S. Army, Infantry, Drill Sergeant, NCOIC Ft Lee Ops & Trg · Author has 376 answers and 2m answer views Whether or not you get deployed into a war-zone plays a large role in probability of death. I'm assuming you indeed are interested in probability of death in a war-zone. Let me use the Iraq War as a case study. Let me start with this: as a whole, you are 2.5 times more likely to die as a US military member than as a healthy, young civilian in the United States (Preston and Buzzel, 2007). Let's break this down further. There are many factors that contribute to risk of death. According to a study conducted by Preston and Buzzel in 2007, the following factors significantly affect risk of death: (1) branch of service, (2) component of service, (3) rank, and (4) age and sex. I will break down each of these four factors in the following paragraphs. 1. Branch of Service . Branch of service is broken down into Army, Marines, Air Force, and Navy (the Coast Guard was not included in this study). If you are a Marine, you are 2 times more likely to die compared to the Army, 10 times more likely to die when compared to the Navy, and 20 times more likely to die when compared to the Air Force. In fact, if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. 2. Component of Service. This pertains to whether or not you are in Active Duty, Reserves, or National Guard. Death rates for Active Duty Army soldiers are 3 times more than Reserve Army soldiers. Army National Guard has an intermediate risk of death. Marines have a high risk of death regardless of component. 3. Rank. Enlisted men have 40% higher mortality rates than Officers. There are exceptions to this though. Army Lieutenants have a 19% higher mortality rate compared to all Army troops combined. Marine Lieutenants have a 11% higher mortality rate compared to all Marines. 4. Age and Sex. Younger military personnel have a higher chance of dying. Males are 5.5 times more likely at risk of dying compared to females. It's interesting to note that Marines are disproportionately young. 64.7% of Marines deployed to Iraq were aged 24 and younger, compared to the Army's 39.5% To sum everything up, if you're young, male, a Marine, and enlisted, you have the highest chance of dying. If you're a young male in the Army or Army National Guard, you have a moderate chance of dying. If you're in the Air Force or Navy, you have a low chance of dying. If you are female, you have a lower chance of dying. I hope this answer paints a clear picture for you. 317.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? Ask New Question Quora User Answered May 20, 2015 · Author has 191 answers and 112.4k answer views I think that it's more dependent on who you're at war with than what branch you're in. I mean, on the surface you would think that infantry, marines, they would get mowed down.  And generally they do, not the supply clerks and nurses, but grunts that didn't do to great on the asvab. Then, what about these modern wars where you're fighting among these lands that have been redirected to go through another pre-industrial age?  If you're in the Navy and not a bomber pilot, you're probably not going to get killed.  It's the twenty year old running around the depleted uranium-saturated streets that's going to get it. So, what if it's not war with the peasants?  In the World Wars whole ships filled with people in the Navy were killed at once.  The United States built Liberty Ships, shitty, low-quality, high-volume pigs that planners assume would be sunk in vast quantities.  There were no illusions. In fact, I've read that if you were in one of the countries involved in the European theater, it wasn't a bad idea to be in the ground forces because there all the civilians were getting vaporized, blown to bits, and incinerated too. Of course, if we went to war with Russia then a majority of officers flying an F-22 would not come back.  All of them flying a JSF-35 (is it in service?) would be dead.  Possibly all the Air Force guys at bases where they're launching F-22's would be bombed and strafed after all the F-22's had been blown out of the sky.  Maybe the infantry guys would get together with the Russian guys and watch the mess play out above.  "How long did yours go to college?  Ours are there for four years." And the Navy at war with Russia... everyone on those aircraft carriers would be a bit more nervous than when it's the peasant opposing force. So: Peasant enemy, combat MOS infantry and Marines.  Second world enemy, Navy sailors and officers alike and Air Force officers. Disclaimer: I know, we're not really fighting peasants.  We're just weaving in and out of peasants where the bad guys are hiding, dressed as peasants.  I mean no offense by pointing out the difference between a peasant army and a big army that is wearing matching costumes. 21.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Deborah Gahm , Mil spouse for over 20 years Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 771 answers and 1.1m answer views I have to agree with Gary Leverich .  You are more likely to die due to accidents (including drunk driving) than combat. According to the latest statistics I could find: In 2009, there were 1,519 active duty deaths.  The highest percentage of those deaths were due to accidents, 28.5 per 100,000.  They do not differentiate between alcohol related accidents and normal accidents.  21.5/100,000 were due to hostile actions. There were about 1.6 million active duty members that year. For comparison, an average of 1,825 college students die each year from only alcohol related incidents alone. Active Duty Military Death Rates Per 100,000 Serving National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) 103.2k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Allen Inks , former Electrician's Mate First Class - EM1 (SS) at United States Navy (1972-1980) Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 1.5m answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? EDIT: The question changed; it originally was asking about survival chances in various military branches if “war broke out in the US”. I’ve not got enough time to change the answer to fit the new question. Okay, “War broke out in the US” is kind of vague. Do you mean A) civil war , for example, another civil war between Republicans and Democrats? Do you mean B) war with a foreign power inside the US, as in Canada and Mexico go in cahoots to attack and invade the US? Or do you mean C) nuclear war, as in one of the Kims fulfills the dynasty’s self-destructive tendencies, and launches several nuclear missiles at the US, which in turn, turns that failing country into a nice pristine glass parking lot for KIA and Hyundai factory overflow - which in turns results in some further nuclear missile strikes against the US from another country…who shall remain nameless? Note that I am assuming that option A is non-nuclear - though sometimes from the rhetoric from the far right and the far left, I’m not sure. I wish everyone would just wise up, vote Libertarian, and leave the Democratic and Republican parties on the ash heaps of history, but … I digress. A) In the case of a civil war, I will assume that the main purpose of the Republican and Democratic Navies will be to blockade the coasts of the land held by the other side, and to break the Naval blockades of the other side. I expect that the naval nuclear weapon assets controlled by each side will be sent to far-flung bases to wait out the war, and that we will be smart enough (or at least military leaders will be… I can’t vouch for ANY of the politicians) to not target things like nuclear weapons storage facilities, Minuteman missile silos, or nuclear power plants. The Air Force, Army and Marines will likely be highly involved. Likewise, Coast Guard highly involved doing blockade work (but lacking subs or significant anti-submarine capability, will mostly be targets for submarines). Best bet for survival: Navy. B) In the case of invasion by the frozen Canadians and the highly motivated Mexicans (NOTE TONGUE FIRMLY IN CHEEK - this is hypothetical and I’m just teasing our friends across the borders - actually, I know of at least 4 Canadians who are partially defrosted.) Again, I would expect the Army and Marines to be highly involved in repulsing those dastardly foes from our hallowed soil. Lots of bullets flying on all three sides… The Air Force should be flying tactical support for our ground troops… but by this time will probably have retired the A-10 (not sexy enough a mission for the Generals), so they will be flying F-35s and F-22’s to gain air superiority, and finding out that the F-35 makes a shitty replacement for an A-10. Hopefully, the Marines will have plenty of their planned V-22 Osprey gunship variants to augment Army helicopter crews to support the ground pounders. The Air Force will also be using B-52s that are on Medicare and collecting Social Security to support the troops using smart bombs, and using B2’s to bomb Ottawa, Mexico City, and other strategic location… but sparing important cultural sites like Senor Frog’s in Los Cabos. The Coast Guard….guarding the coasts to prevent opening a third or fourth front…likely, not too too involved. Maybe some riverine warfare. Navy…. using aircraft carriers to assist our North American Free Trade partners that they really want to go back home, or there won’t be a home to go back to. Best bet for survival: Coast Guard… followed by Navy. C) Multiple Exchange Massive Nuclear war: Substantially everybody dies. Best bet for being amongst the last to die: Submarine crew (Navy) or Minute Man Missile launch officers (Air Force). My best guess would be the Navy would be the last to go… more mobility to avoid fallout (authority for this “guess” - “On the Beach” (book or movie)). My advice re nuclear weapons sounds just like Nancy Reagan’s advice on drugs, “Just Say No”. Funny coming from a guy who spent 4 years living amongst 16 thermonuclear tipped SLBMs, doing his part to make sure my sub was ready when the call came, right? Nope… not funny. 27.9k Views · View Upvoters   Riccardo P , studied at University of Zurich Answered May 25, 2017 Eric Tang answered this question and got a lot of upvotes. He wrote: “[…] if you are in the Navy or Air Force, you have a much lower death rate than a healthy, young civilian in the United States. […]” Really man??? Eric, I really have nothing personally against you or anyone else that wrote something similar here, but honestly, this is one of the most misleading statements I ever heard/read. Please STOP fooling young people with this kind of statements. It highly suggest to enroll in Military because you may apparently live longer! But this is very obviously big b#$@=%÷! To enroll in Military means (1.) to become a killer and (2.) to be exposed to a much higher probability to die young if you are sent to a war zone. How much higher the probability is, is less important in my opinion. But it certainly is higher if you “play around” with arms. I mean, even the government tells you not to travel in war zones . Why? Because it is dangerous. You could die. Higher risk to die. I would really not trust any statistics that suggest that the probability to die is lower if you enroll yourself in Military. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Gary Leverich , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered May 15, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout · Author has 472 answers and 2.9m answer views Combat is of course risky.  But most of the military never sees actual combat, they serve in support roles.  Even support roles carry their own level of risk.  Advanced weaponry is designed to take out support functions.  So working on an airfield well away from actual combat still carries a level of risk.  Other than combat, the highest cause of death in the military (all branches) is alcohol.  I was stationed with the 101st Airborne Division.  That division has a sign at the front of the base (at least used to) counting the days since the last alcohol related traffic death.  If we made it 101 days, we would get a day off.  We rarely made it 101 days. In 15 years of service, including 6 years in the Marine Corps with 2 combat deployments, and 9 in the Army with one peacekeeping mission, I lost 1 soldier.  That's because he wrapped his car around a tree after a weekend binge. 44.9k Views · View Upvoters   Daniel Kearns , former Paratrooper 82nd Airborne at U.S. Army Answered Mar 25, 2013 · Author has 1k answers and 4.8m answer views Generally, it matters not which branch you pick. What matters is what job you pick in that branch. Known as an MOS (Military Occupation Specialty), some are much more dangerous than others. For example, 11B Infantry is an MOS in the US Army that would be considered much more dangerous than say 36B Financial Management Technician.  There would be very few, (read: no), instances where a 36B might see combat. In todays US Army, virtually every Regular Army 11B will see some variation of combat at some point. Every US Military Branch has jobs known as Combat Arms.  These jobs will always be more dangerous than Support jobs. 36k Views · View Upvoters   Clell Harmon , Retired USN. Career SSBN Sailor Answered Jul 6, 2015 · Upvoted by Quora User , Hobby Farmer, Amateur Brewer, Retired US Army Cavalry Scout and Quora User , Veteran of the U.S. armed forces · Author has 817 answers and 2.4m answer views In my experience, the leading cause of death among service members, is being stupid. Young men, no matter how intelligent they are, are prone to being stupid.  The proximity of other young men amplifies stupidity. Youtube is proof of this, but it existed long before anyone thought about putting videos on the internet. Take poorly maintained cars, an idiot behind the wheel looking to impress his passengers, lubricate with a bit of alcohol and you get dead people. I was in the Navy for more than 20 years. In my time in service, I buried five of my shipmates because of auto accidents.  None to combat, one to catestrophic equipment failure on a Submarine, two to drowning (one 'on duty' and one from being stupidly drunk and finding a rip current), and one to an undiagnosed aneurysm that burst when we were underway. 22.5k Views · View Upvoters   Rachel Bolyard , World traveler, appreciator of well built things Answered May 5, 2017 · Author has 260 answers and 199.2k answer views Your chances of dying in an auto accident are like 2000x higher than dying in any modern combat scenario. You're literally safer in a war zone than driving yourself out for dinner tonight. 30k people die per year in the US driving and 14 soldiers died in combat in 2016. Most jobs in the military, even if you're in a combat zone, don't involve shooting. You may end up with some convoy duty, which is by far the most risky thing to do, because a) it's driving and military vehicles are top heavy, rolling over and killing their operators routinely in training or combat, and b) convoys are symbols of power and occupation therefore insurgents like to target them. Training fatalities in the armed forces are in the hundreds per year per force. The Navy is probably the most dangerous because they have the most machinery and moving parts. Still though, from the stats, you're still safer serving than driving… 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Jatavius Williams , Been an United States Army Drill Sergeant For 13yrs Now. Answered Apr 6, 2016 Son there are NO CHANCES in the art of fighting for your country. Each branch is fighting forr the same purpose and that purpose is most likely to fight for freedom. If you get shot were going to call "Medic!,Medic!" If the Medic is down "Carl! Carl! Get On The Radio" If that Happens Thats your Ass son. 7k Views · View Upvoters   Luke Han , Student Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 147 answers and 272.6k answer views Originally Answered: If war broke out in the US, which Branch of the military would you be more likely to survive in? The Coast Guard operates under the U.S Department of Homeland Security during peacetime, but can be transferred to the U.S Department of the Navy by Congress or the President. But it is technically part of the military. The Coast Guard would probably be your best bet. In World War II, 241,093 people served in the Coast Guard. Out of the 241,093 people that served, 574 died in action. That’s literally a 0.2% death rate, almost non-existent. However, if we don’t consider the Coast Guard as part of the military, Air Force and Navy would probably be your best bet, especially the Air Force. 10.7k Views · View Upvoters   Christopher Sullivan , works at U.S. Army Answered Jan 25, 2016 · Author has 294 answers and 87.2k answer views It depends on your MOS and where you are deployed to. Then there is the unit to consider, if you have tools for leadership and your unit is completely ate up, chances are high even if you're in a relatively quiet area. If you're unit is on point, then you're chances of survival are pretty high even if you're hell so to say. 8.8k Views · View Upvoters   Gordon Wilson , studied at Florida Southern College Answered May 22, 2015 If you are not alright with risking your life do not go into the military.  No matter what job you do there is danger.  You can die in training... happens all the time.  My father was a pilot and lost a couple friends just in training exercises (faulty equipment, communication errors, etc)  All of the services may be at risk at some point.  So if you are not prepared for the danger of being in the armed forces I would not suggest it.  I would say your best bet would be to be a doctor but even then the base you are stationed at if during time of war could be bombed.  I know a buddy from high school who died in an accident during an Army training exercise.  I think the vehicle flipped or something.  So yeah you could die at anytime if you're in the armed forces.  That is part of the job description.. you might die. 11.5k Views · View Upvoters   Ashleigh Jennings Answered Mar 16, 2013 well, i suppose its half luck half ability. if you were to join the army, you could be put anywhere, meaning that you could be dropped in a high combat area, where you are more likely to be hit. if you were to join the air force, you could be sitting at a desk finding targets, or in a plane potentially getting shot at. in the navy the boat could sink, and as a marine the odds of you dying anywhere is quite high... hope this helps. 6.5k Views · View Upvoters   Eliel Wu Answered Jan 20, 2016 Stats says you guys are wrong, the most dangerous branch to be in is the U.S Army. U.S Army 4,358 12-18 month deployments 3 month stand down and redeploys marines 1,394 6-7 month deployments 6 month stand down and redeploys The U.S Army has a large number of soldiers deployed in theater but only a small percentage in combat, the large number are none combat oriented whose job is to keep most of the bases running regardless of branch. If you want the hard and tough missions where your life is at risk the highest than join the Army. If you are looking for glory based on your branch, uniform appearance and what boot camp was like than the marines is for you. M M 7.8k Views · View Upvoters   Asa Waters , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Jul 21, 2015 http://www.nytimes.com/interacti... Army has the most deaths, basically 3 of every 5 people killed in combat is army, followed by Marines, navy and air force. In over 10 years of combat there's about 2000 deaths as of this article... Odds of dying are slim regardless. 943 Views   Jervis Fitzroy , lives in Northern Ireland Answered Feb 16, 2017 · Author has 988 answers and 196k answer views If you’re really bothered about it join the Chaplain’s Department. At least you’ll be well connected if you become one of the small number of Padres who have been killed in combat. 541 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at U.S. Army Answered Jul 13, 2016 · Author has 155 answers and 119.6k answer views Depends on the nature of the war and where it's fought as well as against who. A ground war into China would not bode well for the Infantry and other guys on the ground however that's a total different proposition if you're asking us to take down some African Warlord. Same goes for air infiltrating Russian air Defence system would be a much greater undertaking then performing the same Mission in Africa. So it's all about what type of War being fought at that moment the capabilities of the enemy and the different Specialties that are most affected when adding that up. 556 Views · Answer requested by  Raulon Van Tassell   Stefan Johansson Answered Aug 26, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.7k answer views If you're worried of death,don't join the military. 521 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? How do I choose between the four branches of the US armed forces? Is ROTC considered a branch of the armed forces? Why do all branches of the United States Armed Forces have snipers? What is the safest major branch of the US armed forces? What branch of the U.S. Armed forces gets deployed most often? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What branch of the Armed Forces of the US has a better chance of staging a successful coup? Which branch of the U.S. Armed Forces is the best? Which branch of the US armed forces is the most powerful? How do people decide which branch of the armed forces to join? How can I die without pain? How did the armed forces view Obama? What is the importance of having the armed forces divided in branches? What role do the different branches of the United States Armed Forces have? What is it like to battle the US military in armed conflict? Which is the most powerful branch of the armed forces in India? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Infantry  U.S. Army  Military What are the chances of me dying by joining the army infantry in the current war climate? I’m considering the 3 year contract. Update Cancel Answer Wiki 9 Answers   Victor Egorov , former Fort G Meade at U.S. Army Answered Oct 24, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies and  MIke Gentile , former Veteran  at U.S. Army (1988-1992) · Author has 596 answers and 807.5k answer views Your chances of becoming a casualty are quite low. I would not agree with with some of the other answers here and claims that “you have a higher chance to die in car crash” - this simply is not true. -So 3 year contract. -Infantry -Situation similar to last decade and a half of Iraq/Afghanistan proportions, in short an insurgency war. Off the bat, in three year congract you should only have enough time to train, get to your unit, deploy one time( 12 months) I’m using approximate numbers as I recall these to be during my time in the service. please find it within yourself to not argue or correct me on every number I chose to use for this approximation. For a war time statistic of active combat action and hostility we could take a situation that I recall being off and on a norm 2005 -2012. So among a force of 100,000 US military Service members deployed 50 are KIA a month. Some months have been better some have been worse. A low 20/30-for a slow month, while on a bad month 100+ ) In addition each month could have 100 more experience loss of limb, severe burns, loss of cognitive function/brain damage, spinal cord injury, complete loss of eye sight… life changing injuries. Plus another 200 service members are wounded to various lesser degrees. These injuries and deaths mainly distributed among combat arms soldiers. Infantry, light mechonised, MPs, combat engineers( route clearance) EOD, JSOC units. Realistically about 30,000- 40,000 out of total troop strength would sponge up most of the casualties and injuries. Let’s say 2/3s of it. So out of 100,000 with focus on 30,000 that have spent a year in combat zone as combat arms soldiers during war time mission 50*(2/3)*12 = 400 would be KIAs 100*(2/3)*12 =800 gravely injured 200*(2/3)*12=1600 non life changing injury( gunshot, concussion, loss of fingers,partial eyesight) While the other 1/3 of deaths and injuries will distribute among cooks, supply, air assets, medics, admin, engineers, mechanics, and on. So, just to ballpark on a single 3 year contract with a 12 month deployment into an active combat zone as we have witnessed over last decade and a half: You have about 1- 1,2% chance of loosing your life. 2–3% chance of being gravely injured. 4–7% of being wounded. So it’s a little above national highway injury statistic but it’s not terribly bad either. All and all your chances of getting “fucked up bad” are below 5% Getting “Hurt” are below 7% On back end, I’d recommend looking up monthly stats for suicides among US combat veterans… it’s somewhat high and troubling. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. Americans are shocked about how this new site can reveal so much more. Enter a name to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? Ask New Question   Matt Blackshaw , Professional Dog Walker Answered Nov 1, 2017 If you join any of the Armed forces regular or reserve you should make a conscious decision that your commitment will place you in dangerous situations. Combat arms Corps and Infantry in particular are some of the most dangerous trades to be employed in. As a potential candidate for any service you must give serious consideration that your unit and yourself WILL be deployed and you WILL be placed in dangerous situations in training and on operations. Army’s fight wars and wars involve killing the enemy, It's a two sided thing so if you are trying to defeat the enemy the enemy will be trying to defeat you by any means possible including killing you. Its good that you ask this question because it means you are thinking of the consequences of your decision to join the Military and FIGHT. War, Killing, Catastrophic injuries, Suffering and the psychological effects of being exposed to these elements are not subjects recruiters like to embellish during the recruitment process. 2.1k Views · View Upvoters   Jonathan Keiler , Army veteran Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by  Joe Francis , Sergeant in Marine Corps, Officer in US Army, 26 years service · Author has 1.2k answers and 1.8m answer views Joining the Army infantry usually does not cause death. If it did, they would have a hard time maintaining any units at all. The risks of just dropping dead after you join, since you generally have to be young and fit to get in the Army infantry, are also extremely low. In the current climate, the risks of an infantryman being killed in an accident or in combat, are also pretty low. However, that is always subject to change. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Danny Perez , former Wheeled Vehicle Mechanic at U.S. Army (2013-2015) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Upvoted by Quora User , former Supervisor S2 at Armies · Author has 178 answers and 24.8k answer views IF you get deployed to a combat zone then your chances are just as any. I can’t speak for Infantry. I was a mechanic, a POG. Lol. What I can tell you is that it is a lot different now than it was when the heat of the war had just started. My suggestion, as a POG, lol, join a POG MOS. If you score well enough in your ASVAB you can get more jobs available to you. Just a thought. No soldier is ever safe in a combat zone. There’s always indirect fire coming into the bases no matter how much of a fortified position we have built. 711 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by LendingTree Veterans could receive up to $42,000 with these VA benefits. Many American veterans are missing out on benefits that could save them thousands. Learn More at lendingtree.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Stefan Johansson Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 2.5k answers and 213.7k answer views Dude,if you join the military,you also agree to risk your health and life if necessary. Being a soldier is not just a job,it’s also the pride of serving your country,and if needed die for it. If you’re not mentally prepared for that,stay out of the military forces,go drive a school bus instead…. 501 Views · View Upvoters   Mike Moffatt , Retd. Grandmaster (Military Order) Knights Templar (1988-present) Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 265.7k answer views You’ve got more of a chance being injured in a car accident, or being ridden in to by a cyclist than being killed in action. If you constantly worry about dying you’ll never do anything worthwhile in this life. 803 Views · View Upvoters   John Phillips , worked at U.S. Army Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 1k answers and 575k answer views 100% What ever your focus is, is your target. Death finds those that seek it. I do not want anyone dragging death to the battle. I want them to fight, and claw, and scream, kick, gouge, punch, whatever it takes. I want life. You bring that bastard with you, the Drills will see it. You will not make it through training. They will kick your narrow ass, chicken shit, death dragging self out. No one, and hear this carefully, no one will tolerate the talk of death. Death is always close. In battle, and in training, he is fed enough. The gates of Hell and Heaven are a damn freeway because of the wars. I have a daughter that has never seen peace. And now I answer a person about death. I hope, have never seen death. If so, then you understand all of this. 552 Views · View Upvoters   Yash Mor , studied at Rashtriya Military School - Bangalore (1981) Answered Oct 22, 2017 · Author has 191 answers and 35.2k answer views You may have higher chances of dying in road accident or due to a natural or man made catastrophe. Please don't even plan to join the Indian Army as it may not select people with negative attitude in life. 511 Views · View Upvoters   Prajakta , B.com Accounting and Taxation & Financial Markets, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar (2015) Answered Oct 22, 2017 You are already dead considering what you’ve asked. But anyways, don’t consider joining it. Army wouldn’t need you. 412 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Can you get into the infantry in your army contract? Can Egyptian women join the Egyptian Army infantry? If not, then what unit can they join? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units in Germany? What are the chances I would see combat if I joined the army infantry in 2018? Are we going to enter into World War 3 in 2017? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Are we heading towards World War III? Is it better to join the Army infantry or Marines infantry? What is infantry school like for the U.S. Army? What U.S. Army jobs have 4-year contracts? Who won World War 2? How do I join the Army Reserve infantry units What is the infantry in the Army? How trained are U.S. Army infantry? Are there US Army infantry in Syria? What will I be doing in the US Army infantry? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Combat  U.S. Marine Corps  United States Armed Forces  Death and Dying  Personal Question If I join the Marines will I probably get killed? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 14 Answers Quora User , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Nov 21, 2015 · Author has 235 answers and 190.1k answer views No, you won't. First I would like to encourage you, if you're serious about joining the Marine Corps, to change that attitude about being killed. "Ready to die but never will," is a motto Marines live by and is fundamental to their success. Marines do not have a defeatist attitude rather possess esprit de corps. This mindset instills the courage Marines use for success in combat. In the current climate of international affairs it is not very likely you will die, but things will change. Your odds of being K.I.A. goes up or down depending on your M.O.S. (your job as a Marine) which may place you in the rear or the first person on the beach. If its the latter, Godspeed! Consider that since March 2003 until October 2015 there have been 4814 deaths during all operations conducted in Iraq, according to http://icasualties.org . This number includes all U.S. forces and allies from other countries such as Britain, Georgia, Canada and others. Joining the military is a big decision to make and requires deep thought especially if your already thinking about being killed. Marines can smell this fear on you and you will have a very unpleasant time in the service if you cannot get squared away. Its a dangerous job and killing is in the job description. There are many dangerous aspects of life but don't let fear of the unknown govern your decisions. Semper fi. 7.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below Should I join the Marines? If so, why? Can you join the Marines with a felony? What should I do before joining the Marines? What kind of people join the Marines? Can you join the Marines with a misdemeanor? Ask New Question   David Condrey , Web Developer, Hacker, Innovator, Photographer, Designer, Biker Answered Oct 31, 2015 · Author has 296 answers and 549.9k answer views Probability of dying in a war.. • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) Your far more likely to die if you are a logger or fisherman or garbage collector or roofing your own house. 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Zachary Asa , 5 years enlisted. 2621/2611. HMMWV driver. I know Morse Code. Answered Oct 30, 2015 No. Here's my reasoning; I'll show my math. Probably equals to me (a high probability). I was in the Marines, I didn't die because of it. Most of the people I know (over 99%) didn't die. I know two: Paul - Suicide after one week of Chantix. Daniel - Suicide after getting kicked out for drugs. We all die at some point, and the Marines didn't seem to increase that probability by any amount in my view.  Most of the died in ways normal 18-28 year olds die, self inflicted, drugs, or accidents. Effing morbid man. Let's talk about kittens next time. 5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   John Riggs , General knowledge collector and interested fellow... Answered Oct 30, 2015 · Upvoted by  Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management · Author has 202 answers and 294k answer views Presuming you avoid the usual killers of US Service members: NO  Don't drink and drive, avoid alcoholic benge drinking, avoid high risk activities (sky diving, racing etc) and you like almost all other service members will probably live to complete your enlistment.  In addition you'll have gained education, knowledge and experience that cannot be replicated anywhere else. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Elizabeth Porco , CS masters, hobby artist, spent too much time on the streets of Berkeley and Oakland Updated Jun 22, 2016 · Author has 7.6k answers and 2.1m answer views If you join the Marines or any branch of the military, the most probable outcome is that you will come back alive. Even the Quakers say this. It's true that the Army and Marines are more dangerous than most civilian jobs and that Marine infantry is more dangerous than the rest of the military. However, you likely to spend more time being bored than being under fire in the military. Note: I have edited this to reflect an excellent answer given by an Army officer. Only my lack of skill with the Quora UI prevented me from citing his answer 1.4k Views · View Upvoters   Jon Davis , worked at U.S. Marine Corps Updated Oct 16, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views You’ll be fine. Many assume that the only people who would want to join the military, and especially the US Marines, are those who want to die from some car bomb in Iraq. Just as many assume that the majority of us have seen more than we actually have. There is also this myth that we are all just "the lucky few" who survived four years in the middle of some never-ending artillery barrage. The truth is, while there are plenty of risks, which are widely known, you are far safer in the United States military than most would believe possible. For example, what if I told you that only about a quarter of active duty troops every deploy to a combat zone if there is a major war like Iraq going on. Most are stationed somewhere else doing all manner of jobs that have nothing to do with shooting people. What’s more surprising is that even if you do go to war, there is less than a one in a thousand chance that you might actually be killed. Of course, this answer is specific to the Americans. Those that go against us have more grim statistics, naturally. Across the US military, and this is similar for the Marines, the risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11, estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch to be about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660. which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded, then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. For the those not blessed with the ability to conceptualize such things, here's a tasty pie. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to war in Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. This trait, however, isn't anything new. The US military, at least since the dawn of the 20th century and perhaps because of the carnage of our own civil war, have adapted a mentality and strategy that ensures our military does not easily sacrifice its own. We simply have values that don't allow us to experience heavy troop losses and a wealth that affords the ability to win without them. In truth we live today in a time-period where we have proven that experience matters more than assets and that a troop's life is almost always more valuable than the patch of Earth they are fighting for. That's why modern warfare doesn't allow for high losses. Take a look at the figures for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, pulled from Wikipedia. This doesn't include the insurgency years that followed, but showcased the last time we fought a full-on war with an advanced national military. That last statistic is significant. The Coalition's troop strength before the battle was 265,000 troops, mostly from the United States and the UK. The Iraqis' troop level was 1,119,000, more than 4x that fielded by the Coalition. The end result, however, was that through great strategic, technological, and logistical superiority, the American lead Coalition was able to inflict as many as 261 times as many casualties as the Iraqi were capable of delivering in return. That's more than 250 Iraqi killed for every Coalition death. A more lopsided battle has never been fought. Perhaps it is just that we don't fight that much or stay safely behind our big walls. We just send out the evil drones and high powered missiles, snipers, and other cowardly means of fighting a war. Well, given the option... wouldn't you? I know these guys certainly would if given a second chance. A grim look through history will show that American military doctrine has focused on a few key tenets throughout at least the last century. We focus on augmenting our troops through overwhelming technology rather than creating a culture that loves war. The facts are that Americans deeply hate conflict. We will do whatever we can to avoid it on an interpersonal level, regardless of whatever you think about our foreign policy. This is reflected in our demographics. Today, after 13 years of war, and with a sizeable portion of our Vietnam-era veterans still alive, US veterans still only number 22 million individuals and account for less than 7% of the total population. Note, that is veterans , not active service members. The Department of Veterans Affairs projects that that number is set to decrease, not only in percentages, but in real value. They project that by 2043 we will only have 14 million veterans alive for a total percentage of the population at only 3.5%. The decreasing number of veterans means a country culturally disconnected from the realities of its wars because of the peacefulness of the daily lives of its citizens. And that's how we want it. The alternatives are thus: during the Second World War, you saw very different social military philosophies come head to head. Among these were the Americans and the Japanese. The Japanese were fantastic engineers and created marvelous machines. One such was the Zero fighter. It had a turning capability and climb that was far superior to other fighters. It was more agile and a deadly threat. The trade-offs? It's aluminum coating was brittle and the plane offered no armor for the pilot, engine or other critical points of the aircraft. Its light construction also made it prone to catching fire and exploding during combat. Add this to the practice of Japanese fighters on the ground routinely combating US Marines with suicidal "Banzai" charges, the human-wave attack and we see a culture which adopted an ancient form of warfare: the military death cult. Death and the warrior were at that time so intertwined through a perversion of the Samurai Bushido culture that the leadership of Japan could order hundreds of thousands of Japanese to their deaths without the Japanese people resisting at all. This culminated in the ultimate corruption of bravery and honor; the creation of the Kamikaze pilot and the "Baka" Bomb. This is the Japanese Yokosuka MXY-7 Ohka ("cherry blossom"), a rocket-powered parasite aircraft used towards the end of the war. The U.S. called them Baka Bombs ("idiot bombs"). They called it this, because the only intended purpose of the aircraft was to be guided by a pilot to impact directly with an enemy ship by a pilot who had reserved himself to die in the effort. The Kamikaze (Divine Wind) is named for the legendary holy force which protects the Japanese from invasion by outsiders, namely because of a storm which swallowed up tens of thousands of Mongol invaders hundreds of years ago before they ever set foot on Japanese soil. The Kamikaze myth was resurrected for the creation of a force of airmen who volunteered and trained for a mission in which they would surely die, once again, like a storm from Heaven protecting Japan from foreign invaders. So committed were these soldiers and those who commanded them to this idea of a glorious death for their nation and their emperor, they even attended a ceremony before their mission which could only be described as their funeral. In contrast, the American philosophy emphasized an entirely different approach. We preferred to keep our warriors alive, if for no other moral reason than to pass on their experience and be useful on a better day. We engineered fighter aircraft with more power that could give us the strength and survivability to keep fighting. Add to this the individual support given to the individual troop. While the base soldier thrown away during a Japanese suicide charge was said to be worth less than $10 by their own admiralty, the United States Marine, the most underfunded of the military branches, would deploy with supplies of everything from ammunition, food, water, and bandages, to paper and pencils and glass eyes of every imaginable size and color... just in case. This excerpt from Flags of Our Fathers displays in the days and weeks leading up to the Battle of Iwo Jima the American philosophy, strategy, and implementation of sending every man with all the gear to have a dominating edge, and the greatest chance possible of coming home. ... the movement of over 100,000 men, Marines, Navy support personnel, Coast Guard units across 4,000 miles of ocean for three weeks is a triumph of American industry galvanizing itself in a time of great national peril. At the outset of the war, Japan's naval strength was more than double that of America's, but across the American continent, the idling factories steamed and sparked to life. Most of the vessels came splashing off the industrial assembly lines in the six months before this assault... ... And it has not just been a matter of hardware. The civilians of America have mobilized behind these fighting boys. Behind each man on board the ships are hundreds of workers. In the factories, in the cities and towns, on the heartland farms; Rosie the Riveter, boy scouts collecting paper and metal, the young girl who would become Marilyn Monroe, sweating away in a defense plant. Here is some of what those mobilized civilians have generated for this tremendous force: For each of the seventy thousand assault troop Marines 1,322 lbs of supplies and equipment. Some of it sounds weirdly domestic: dog food, garbage cans, light bulbs, house paint. Some of it suggests an island business office: duplicating machines, carbon paper, movie projectors. Some sounds like kids' camping gear: toilet paper, socks, shoelaces, paper and pencils, flashlights, blankets. Some begin to suggest a sterner mission: flares, plasma, bandages, crucifixes, holy water, canisters of disinfectant to spray on corpses. And some of it gets exactly to the point: artillery, machine guns, automatic rifles, grenades and ammunition. The transport ships carry six thousand five-gallon cans of water, enough food to feed the population of Atlanta for a month or the assaulting Marines for two months. The Marines brought along one hundred million cigarettes. This isn't to say our strategy made us invulnerable. We endured great losses to be sure, 19,000 at the Battle of the Bulge, 16,293 at Normandy, 12,513 in Okinawa, and countless other battles throughout the war, totaling around 405,000 dead Americans. While that number is appalling, it pales compared with others. Soviet Union - up to 13,000,000 military dead, Germany - up to 5,500,000, Japan - 2,120,000. These figures do not include civilian dead, of which the United States had virtually none. That said, we dominated the Japanese in World War II once we steadied ourselves from the attack on Pearl Harbor. We suffered 1/24th their total losses in a war they began. The same can be seen in Iraq or Afghanistan and can be seen as well in any major conflict we have been a part of in the last one hundred years. This is because our philosophy wins wars in this modern age. War isn't won by weapons; it is won by warriors. Make the warrior a weapon and give him the tools to succeed and come home, and no other force on Earth can defeat him. Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 3k Views · View Upvoters   Logan Brewer Answered Jan 25, 2016 While you can never rule out the possibility of dying while in the Corps, the odds are in your favor. Far more Marines make it out alive than ones that don't. Their are many variables to this question though. The most important is probably what your military occupational specialty is. Some MOS's are innately more dangerous than others. If you mean to join the infantry, you must not be afraid of death, because there are millions of Americans depending on you to win the fight. 634 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , BS from United States Military Academy (1974) Answered Oct 30, 2015 · Author has 213 answers and 153k answer views "Probably" suggests "more likely than not".  Any military service necessarily involves the "possibility" of dying.  Nobody knows the future and what situations may arise for a Marine unit of which you may become a member. However, based on the past, loss of over 50% (assuming that would be the definition of "probably") of any military unit (Marines included) is extremely rare.  If you look at the number of those who have served as US Marines and how many Marines have been killed on active duty, the number is extremely small.  So, no, if you join the Marines, you "probably" -- even "almost certainly" -- will NOT be killed. 715 Views · View Upvoters   Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management Answered May 30, 2016 · Author has 842 answers and 1.6m answer views As a Marine you'll often be asked to solve problems and figure things out on your own. So I recommend you research how many Marines have died in combat in the past decade of war . Then compare that with how many Marines have served in that same time period. Now with those you can do the math and determine the probability of you getting killed in combat. 853 Views · View Upvoters   Russ Laraway , Infantry Company Commander Answered Nov 3, 2015 · Upvoted by  Rik Andino , Former Sgt US Marine Corps. Recruiter Liaison NCO, DOD Administration Management · Author has 96 answers and 89.7k answer views The probability you will be killed is extremely low - the math is crazy good in your favor, but it is absolutely a risk that needs to be carefully considered when deciding to join. 1.4k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , works at Commonwealth of Massachusetts Answered Nov 5, 2015 · Author has 575 answers and 883.7k answer views If you joined the Marines (assuming you are physically, mentally and emotionally qualified), went to war, and avoided anything that could kill a person, you would not get killed.  The things that kill Marines in combat are the same things that would kill anyone else in combat with any other branch of the military, so being a Marine does not increase the likelihood of getting killed. My uncle joined the USMC in the 1960's, went to Vietnam and survived.  All the Marines I know who went to Iraq and Afghanistan returned home. 922 Views   Dane Strickland , USMC 2006-2012 Answered Oct 31, 2015 No. The vast majority of Marines in combat come back alive. Some Marines don't deploy at all. It is true that some die, but your training is good enough that it will probably won't happen. 490 Views   Vohn Watts DC , works at U.S. Marine Corps Answered Nov 17, 2015 No, the chances are extremely low. But in reality your percentages change based on the job you choose. 140 Views   Philip Partain , 14 years military experience, last 4 as an officer in the Navy Chaplain Corps. Answered Nov 3, 2015 Killed...'probably' not. However, if you keep spelling Marine with a lower-case 'm', you 'probably' be threatened with a re-education process that will simulate death. 157 Views Related Questions What should one be aware of when joining the Marines? How hard is it to get into the Marines? Why did you join the marines? Can I join the marines if I used to have ADHD? How can I get in shape to join the Marines Corps? Is it possible to join the Marines then join the Navy? Should I join the Army or the Marine Corps? Why do you want to join marine field? Is being in the Marines worthwhile? Why, or why not? What are the benefits of joining the Marines? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Should I join the Marines? If so, why? Can you join the Marines with a felony? What should I do before joining the Marines? What kind of people join the Marines? Can you join the Marines with a misdemeanor? What should one be aware of when joining the Marines? How hard is it to get into the Marines? Why did you join the marines? Can I join the marines if I used to have ADHD? How can I get in shape to join the Marines Corps? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Risk Management  Risk and Risks  Warfare  Death and Dying  Military History and Wars What is the true risk of being killed in war? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 10 Answers   Roland Bartetzko , former German Army, Croatian Defense Council, Kosovo Liberation Army Updated May 8, 2017 · Author has 676 answers and 33m answer views Statistics and absolute numbers can’t determine the “true risk” of an individual to be killed in a war. You can fight in a war with relatively few casualties on your side (like the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan) and still get killed. On the other hand, your whole unit might be wiped out in the bloodiest of conflicts and you are the only survivor. Important “relative”, non quantifiable risk factors are: Type of war: In a Guerrilla campaign, the insurgents usually have higher losses than the counterinsurgency forces. At least in the beginning, the government forces are stronger than their opponents. This is why you start a guerrilla campaign: you don’t have enough forces for a conventional war! Usually, a counterinsurgent force also has the technical superiority over the Guerrilla which is another factor to explain their low(er) casualty numbers. The Kosovo Liberation Army, for example, lost 18.7 % of its soldiers on the battlefield (17,500 soldiers, 3269 killed), while their enemy, the Serbian counterinsurgency forces, only lost 1.43 % of theirs (105,000 soldiers, 1500 killed). [1] In conventional wars, the casualty numbers between the different militaries involved are usually closer together and it doesn’t even matter which side has lost and which one has won the war: During Operation Barbarossa in WWII, the Soviets lost around 34 % of their soldiers (2.9 million soldiers, 1 million killed) fighting against the Germans, while the Germans with their Allies lost 26% of their soldiers (3.8 million soldiers, 1 million killed) on the Eastern front. [2] Tactics: Surprisingly, many combat soldiers do not die in firefights with the enemy, but in other combat related activities on the battlefield. A good example is the number of Navy SEALs and personal attached to them that got killed in Afghanistan: From the 55 Navy Seals killed in Afghanistan [3] , only 12 soldiers (or 21%) were killed through combat related injuries, but many more (33 soldiers or 78%) lost their lives for a number of very different reasons: 1 suicide 1 drowned in a river during a combat operation 3 died through IED’s, mines or non specified explosions 16 were helicopter crash victims 22 died when their CH-47 helicopter was shot down by an enemy RPG We can see that most soldiers died while they were transported in helicopters (38 SEALs or 69%). During the same time, only three SEALs were killed while travelling in jeeps or Armored Personnel Carriers. In war, tactics are often changed, because of the high number of casualties they “produce”. Especially important are “defensive tactics” like anti sniper tactics which, if properly applied, can save a lot of lives. Intelligence: To have correct and actionable intelligence available on the battlefield does not only make it easier to detect and kill the enemy, but also helps to avoid dangerous situations for your own troops, like ambushes, planned enemy attacks etc. Type of unit: If you are infantry, you can expect that your risk to get killed is higher than that of an artillery or logistics soldier, but not in every conflict. In many wars and especially in counterinsurgency campaigns there might be an equal number of killed soldiers in support units and combat troops. This can be explained with the character of the conflict. A Guerrilla army attacks where the enemy is weakest and a supply transport makes a much easier target than a well protected armored column near the frontline. Special forces, Quick Reaction forces, but also volunteer units have the highest casualty rates. This is due to the dangerous character of their assignments, but also because more “courage and engagement” is expected from them than from other units. Foreign volunteers on the frontline in Bosnia Material: Armored cars, Mine resistant vehicles, body armor, but also mine detecting equipment, ground radars and night vision equipment help keeping casualty numbers low. As I already mentioned, technical superiority also helps to reduce the number of your losses. Training: A well trained soldier has a higher chance to survive on the battlefield. A trained and well coordinated unit is more effective and will suffer fewer losses. Especially important in this regard is specialized pre-deployment training and training in the deployment zones. The better and longer the training, the lower the number of casualties. Experience: In combat the first weeks are the most dangerous. Even with the best training and preparation, there are things that can be learned only “on the job”. After a while, the soldiers become familiar with the battlefield and with their enemy and start to develop instincts that will help them to make the right decisions. Leadership: Military leaders always have to balance between their mission objective and the risk for their soldiers. This can vary, even in the same battalion or company. If you are too careful, you will never reach your objective, but on the other hand who dares does not always win. During World War II, many German Army and Waffen SS units were led by officers who were hungry for a medal and had little consideration for their own lives and the lives of their soldiers. As a result they sustained exorbitantly high losses which in the end contributed to Germany losing the war. Medical system: Often forgotten, the medics are the ones who decide between a gravestone or a purple heart. A good and effective medical system does not only boost morale but saves lives. This is maybe the single most important reason why the US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan have sustained relatively few deadly losses. Individual character: A careful soldier has better chances to survive. There are many individual and group character traits that influence casualty numbers. To name just a few: Motivation: fanatics usually risk more and are therefore more prone to get wounded or killed. Emotions: hate for the enemy and love for your country will get you killed equally quickly. Personal beliefs: a soldier who believes that the cause for the war is right is more ready to risk his life than someone who is just”doing his job”. Intelligence: to be able to properly analyze a tactical situation is a big advantage and might save lives. National character and culture: Some nations are more risk averse than others. Usually Western countries value the life of an individual more than oriental societies. During the Croatian War of Independence, foreign volunteers from different nations had different casualty rates [4] , which could be explained, although not exclusively, by their national character: Hungary: 33 volunteers, 2 killed, 6 %Killed in Action Australia:15 volunteers, 1 killed, 6.7% Killed in Action The Netherlands: 27 volunteers, 7.4% Killed in Action Ireland: 10 volunteers, 1 killed, 10.0% Killed in Action England: 139 volunteers , 15 killed, 10.8 % Killed in Action France: 67 volunteers, 8 killed, 11.9 %Killed in Action United States, 18 volunteers, 3 killed, 16.7% Killed in Action Austria 10 volunteers, 2 killed, 20% Killed in Action Germany: 53 volunteers 14 killed, 26.4 % Killed in Action Although the samples are too small to have any scientific value, they show that soldiers in the same army and conflict, with the same tactics and training, still have very different probabilities to get killed. If combat losses are acceptable or not depends on the political system. A dictatorship can sacrifice a lot more soldiers before having to deal with domestic unrest than a democracy does. In other words: if you fight for a regime, your chances to get killed are higher. Luck: Many of the above mentioned factors are out of an individual’s control. You get drafted, don’t get the appropriate training and will be sent to war. Your officers are useless and your equipment old and of low quality. There isn’t much you can do. Often, an individual that volunteers for a non combat related military occupation has better chances to stay alive than a draftee. If the conflict continues for a long time however, these soldiers will also be sent to the frontlines and die. In the end, each individual’s risk of being killed in combat is the product of all the above mentioned factors and many more. If you are in a wartime military, as a volunteer or draftee, logistics or special forces, there is always the risk to get killed. You can lower your own personal risk by making the right decisions, but after that it’s out of your hands and it often comes down to sheer luck. Footnotes [1] ZYRTARE: Kjo është lista finale e dëshmorëve, invalidëve dhe veteranëve në gjithë Kosovën  - Aktuale - Zeri [2] Operation Barbarossa - Wikipedia [3] Our Fallen Heroes - Navy SEAL Foundation [4] 481 foreign volunteers from 35 countries defended Croatia in 1991-1995 23.8k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Ask New Question   Jon Davis , Military and Cultural Historian, Veteran of US Military Updated Aug 5, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 37.1m answer views The risk of death in the United States military during the most recent decade is less than .1% while the risk of being wounded in action is a sizable amount less than 1%. We have currently about 2,518,542 people in the United States military. Since 9/11 estimates would safely place the number of people who have served in some branch about 6 to 7 million people, probably more. The total people who died as a result of action in either Iraq or Afghanistan since then is about 6,660 which means that fewer than about 0.088% of the people who have enlisted have been killed as a result of that decision. If you consider wounded then the number increases to about 0.738% percent. To better answer this question I also wanted to address these statistics reflected when considering only those who actually participated in a combat deployment. I asked the question How many US troops have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan since 2001? to gain a better picture of just that question. From that Daniel Kearns produced this document ( Page on Senate ) which is a brief and simple, but important piece of information on the Iraq War. From that we see that we have a best estimate of 1.5 million warfighters deployed to Iraq during the war. Taking this with earlier data we see that total killed accounted for .29% of those deployed while wounded accounted for 2.15%. So, to be clear, of those deployed to the hottest combat zone in recent American military history, the highest chance of death was .29% for deployed troops and risk of violent injury was still only 2.15%. These figures do not account for job specialty, which will skew heavily towards infantry type units. I don't have data for this, but as the previous statistics probably surprised many, so will those of the infantry when they become available. Stats from: War in Afghanistan (2001–present) - 2,173 US KIA, 23,500 Coalition WIA (Majority US) Iraq War - 4,487 US KIA, 32,226 US WIA Estimations based on United States Department of Defense Thanks for reading! For more answers like this check out On War by Jon Davis and follow my blog The War Elephant for more new content. Everything I write is completely independent research and is supported by fan and follower pledges. Please consider showing your support directly by visiting my Patreon support page here: Jon Davis on Patreon: Help support in writing Military Novels, Articles, and Essays . 29.2k Views · View Upvoters   Thomas Snerdley , No one is promised tomorrow. TODAY is the day. Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 1.7k answers and 8.6m answer views Slight digression: First of all, there is no War on Terror.  Terror is a tactic, not an actual enemy so by definition there is no way to declare war on it much less prevail.  Only Bush 43 and his neo-conservative chicken hawk apologizers are stupid enough to promulgate such a nonsense phrase.  How on earth did we survive 8 years of misrule by this coterie of idiots? To answer your question: We can make war less risky by better understanding the psychology and sociology of ourselves first, and then those of our "adversaries".  In the vast majority of instances we will find that there is no actual reason for hostility (the emotion) or hostilities (the action) . At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by making war unnecessary . If a conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by taking a great deal of time and effort to understand exactly what effects we wish to achieve and developing a method of achieving those effects that does not include violence.  Many conflicts have been resolved through negotiation, sanctions, embargoes, spycraft and the threat of force without actually engaging in organized violence. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by resolving the situation without violence. If a violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by enabling it to be fought by the smallest number of American participants likely to achieve our goals.  In practical terms this means attempting to have the people directly involved in that country (e.g., mujaheddin in Afghanistan, rebels in Syria) fight it themselves.  If necessary, America could support them by deploying small teams of special forces personnel supported by assets operating in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  In Afghanistan, when we operated with small teams of special forces troops organizing and assisting local fighters we experienced great success.  When we attempted to force the issue with huge, unwieldy Army and Marine units, we got bogged down and lost. At one stroke we have made war less risky ... by reducing the number of American lives put in jeopardy to fight in a conflict. If a large scale violent conflict is unavoidable, we can make war less risky by ensuring full-spectrum dominance in the air, sea, space and cyber domains.  Again, commitment of large-scale ground forces is almost always counterproductive in general and is always counterproductive to the specific goal of making war less risky. Does this answer the question? " To subdue the enemy without fighting ... this is the acme of skill ."  -- Sun Tzu 3.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Colin D. Welch , I have read a lot about military history Answered Sep 24, 2012 · Author has 656 answers and 484.3k answer views I spoke with a guy who works for intelligence, he told me that a lot more positions in the Military are desk jobs. Logistics, Intelligence, operations, etc. He said that he never expected to use powerpoint this much. I would say that joining the army isn't a risk per se, its whether you're in a combat unit that it starts getting risky. 1.3k Views   Jon Mixon , Studied military actions from the Punic Wars to South Waziristan Updated Dec 4, 2012 · Author has 19.3k answers and 89.8m answer views The overwhelming majority of combatants in any war survive the conflict.  Having said that:you can't make war "less risky." Risk will always exist for both side although the side with greater technology and with better planning and logistics will almost always prevail. The only ways which might make warfare somewhat "safer" (itself a subjective term) are likely: For the stronger side to completely crush the opposing side as quickly and as violently as possible before the opponents can inflict significant casualties. Not to fight a war in the first place. 3.7k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Hooah means everything but no Updated Nov 17, 2011 · Author has 3.7k answers and 5.1m answer views We have mechanized it to the extent our technology permits, and will further mechanize it as technology allows us to. We now use drones with pinpoint accuracy, guns that can shoot around a corner, robots that can get up close and check situations out, and I can only surmise what's on the drawing board. The problem with this mechanization is if war is fought by machines, there are no consequences and that would take away a deterrent. This is a video, produced by the New York Times, is a few years old about the Army of the future but is worth watching nonetheless. http://www.nytimes.com/packages/... 1.8k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , A reader of all things historical, from the ancient to the recent. Answered Jun 10, 2013 · Author has 247 answers and 299.3k answer views I think how one approaches this question depends largely on how we view 'losing one's life.' It is easy to quantify the damage done in terms of number of deceased.  While advances in battlefield medicine and military technology allow us to consistently remove soldiers from harm's way and successfully treat more severe injuries, there is a psychological and emotional toll that war takes on the human mind that is almost impossible to avoid. For instance, a recent NY Times piece reports on post-traumatic stress in drone pilots: Distance from Carnage Doesn't Prevent PTSD for Drone Pilots . Shane Smith from VICE also recently had some interesting comments on the true human costs of war: In summary, I think that there will always be improvement in how a military can preserve its human capital, but there will always leave scars in the minds and hearts of those who see its true nature. 3k Views · View Upvoters Anonymous Answered Jun 10, 2013 War is, by its nature, a breeding ground of unpredictable events. By which I mean that every statistic from yesterday's war _might_ be completely irrelevant in the next one, by many orders of magnitude. What is the true risk of humanity ending due to a nuclear winter ? The conditional probability is probably close to one, but what is the probability of an all out nuclear war ? How can a rational person even try to associate a realistic (meaning verifyable) number ? Create a million alternative Earths and measure how many blow themselves up ? It's a non-scientific question. 764 Views   Aaron Anderson , I am a recent graduate from King’s College London with a degree in Intelligence and International Security ... Answered Jun 9, 2013 · Author has 55 answers and 87.8k answer views If the rules were the same for each side fighting in the wars - then maybe less risk. The discourse on war is how military commanders perceive wars ought to be fought. When opposing sides fight outside this framework things get messy. I think a recent example of increased risk is asymmetric warfare between a large state and say a non-state actor like an insurgency. One could use the mujahideen in Afghanistan during the 1980s and the Taliban as examples. I also don't think technological advances and state superiority means a victory- Soviets 1980s. My point is that when rules are established on how wars ought to be fought, standards and methods of operations are understood by each side.  Expectations of what the  adversary is planning may be predicted. Outside this framework it can be pretty messy. This may help to explain why the Obama administration has chosen drones to target insurgent and terrorist groups. As written in Wired for War the drones may provide ~ an asymmetric solution for an asymmetric problem. Of course, however, there's always risk. The fog of war is unavoidable, but managing it is possible I imagine. 1.7k Views   Richard Wagner , Master's Library Administrator (1972) Answered Feb 14, 2018 · Author has 352 answers and 21.8k answer views Over a long period it is less than leading a normal civilian life. A list of causes of death would show it being near the bottom. Of course there are periods of intense combat when it temporarily increases. For the period from 1950 to date it is probably less than auto accidents, numerous illnesses, etc. 71 Views Related Questions Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Is it true that war is inevitable? Is it true that mosquitoes have killed more humans than all the wars in history? Will the next World War be a civil war? Are wars legal or illegal, or can wars be neither? What principles would you be willing to go to war, risk your life and kill people? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How does it feel to kill someone for the first time during a war? Do people think that war and killing is "evil"? Is it true that if Hilary Clinton won we would be more at risk for a World War III? Is there a risk of a global war? Is it true war will never end? Why is it wrong to kill civilians in a war? Will war kill me faster than age? Did the Trojan War really happen? Can war be fun? Is not taking a risk a risk? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Survival  Statistics (collected data)  Warfare WWI: What were the odds of survival for front line soldiers on major offensives? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Learn basic concepts of statistics - available in classroom & online formats. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 3 Answers   Nathan Sledgister Answered Sep 27, 2016 · Author has 94 answers and 422.5k answer views Since the examples provided are battles that were fought on the western front, I’ll answer the question for that theater. Ultimately, you’re odds of survival depended a lot on luck. Basically, they could change based on the time, place, and job you were assigned. For example, if you were one of these guys: You’re chances may not so great compared to the general infantry. These are German storm troopers. Their job was to charge enemy trenches, hit them with grenade barrages (hence the large amount of grenades they are carrying) and take the trench. This was a very dangerous job, since these guys were almost always the first to fight in an offensive. Additionally, different offensives had much better or worse casualty rates. On the first day of the Somme Offensive, the British army suffered 57,470 casualties, with 19,240 of those being fatal casualties. Defensive soldiers had lower rates of casualties due to their entrenched positions. It’s obviously easier to fight when you’re in cover and the enemy isn’t, so for front line soldiers on the defensive you’re chances looked a lot better than for an attacker. Unfortunately, that is the best answer I can provide. There were a lot of offensives that took place over the course of the war, and at each one you’re odds of survival were different if you were a front line soldier, making any general statements about this question difficult. Sorry if it wasn’t that helpful, if you have a more specific question maybe I can provide a better answer. 7.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Conor Deegan promoted  by Wharton Executive Education Learn business analytics online with Wharton Executive Education. Enroll in this three-month Business Analytics program and turn data into a revenue-producing action. Apply Now at execed-emeritus.wharton.upenn You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below How were families informed of the death of a soldier in WWI? Why do sometimes soldiers simply walk in the front line (watch attached video)? What is it like for infantry soldiers to fight on the front line during war? Can you describe daily life for pilots nearest the front lines in WWI? Is war really that psychologically scarring to soldiers on the front line? Ask New Question   Andrew Warinner , Code monkey, expat, utility infielder Answered Feb 10, 2011 · Author has 1.4k answers and 6m answer views It can be difficult to tease out the statistics for a front line soldier. If you look at larger formations like divisions, support troops and units in reserve or rest are included in the totals which will skew the odds. Battalions are perhaps the best unit to look at. They have minimal support troops and are big enough that losses suffered by an individual company won't necessarily overwhelm the fate of the entire unit. So consider the experience of the 1st Battalion of the East Yorkshire Regiment that fought in the opening days of the Somme: < http://www.1914-1918.net/Diaries/wardiary-1eastyorks.html> The battalion was in action between July 1 - 4 before being withdrawn. In that time, the battalion lost 8 officers killed, 11 officers wounded, 35 men killed, 239 wounded and 158 missing. The notional strength of the battalion was around 1000 officers and men. Unfortunately the diary does not give the battalion's initial strength, it probably wasn't 1000 and it was not apparently in combat immediately before the battle and so probably was more or less up to strength. However, the war diary does list the officers that started the battle: 23 officers among the four companies and HQ company. So 35% of the officers were killed and 48% wounded in four days of action. As for the men, a guesstimate of a strength of 800 gives about 4% killed, 30% wounded and 20% missing. Some portion of the missing were captured of course, but given the battalion was on the attack, it is a reasonable assumption that a large portion of the missing were killed and their bodies not recovered, especially given the low number known killed and the high number of wounded. This is not an unrepresentative experience for the Somme. There were battalions that went in with 800 men and came out with 60. It does underline the difference between the officers and men: it was much more dangerous to be a junior officer than to be in the ranks. 15.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Sean Campbell , Founder - B2B Market Research Company - Host of B2B Revealed Answered Feb 10, 2011 · Author has 65 answers and 33.2k answer views A good resource can be found here - http://europeanhistory.about.com... In essence a English soldier had a 1 in 7 chance of being killed (mobilized vs. KIA) A French soldier had a 1 in 5 chance of being killed. 8.1k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? promoted  by TruthFinder Have you ever googled yourself? Do a “deep search” instead. This new site reveals so much more. Enter a name and state to begin. Learn More at truthfinder.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions How were British soldiers returning from WWI welcomed back? Were there any big parades welcoming them home? Were there any soldiers that survived WWI from start to finish? What would soldiers fear in WWI? Before guns were invented, what did soldiers not in the front line do? What were some survival tips on the front lines during WW1 and WW2? How are they different now? What cameras were used to capture the iconic studio portraits of WWI soldiers? Why were soldiers so willing to fight in line battles? What were American soldiers called in WWI? How were airplanes used in WWI? What was included in WWII rations for front-line soldiers? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How were families informed of the death of a soldier in WWI? Why do sometimes soldiers simply walk in the front line (watch attached video)? What is it like for infantry soldiers to fight on the front line during war? Can you describe daily life for pilots nearest the front lines in WWI? Is war really that psychologically scarring to soldiers on the front line? How were British soldiers returning from WWI welcomed back? Were there any big parades welcoming them home? Were there any soldiers that survived WWI from start to finish? What would soldiers fear in WWI? Before guns were invented, what did soldiers not in the front line do? What were some survival tips on the front lines during WW1 and WW2? How are they different now? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact      Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. ✅✅ SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* ✅ FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle ✅ INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... ✅ SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle ✅ ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... ✅ GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: ✅✅ Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* ✅✅*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers • Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      US ARMY INFANTRY "GRUNT VS  POG"  - Duration: 6:51.  ARCHIEzzle  64,584 views     6:51      What to Bring to Basic Training and What to Buy When you Arrive!  - Duration: 12:36.  ARCHIEzzle  104,570 views     12:36      3 Things Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You  - Duration: 8:01.  Matt Ward  103,244 views     8:01      Explaining US Army Warrant Officer rank  - Duration: 8:16.  Christopher Chaos  113,953 views     8:16      BRAND NEW ARMY MEDIC 68W EXPECT FOR THE WORST!  - Duration: 9:56.  ARCHIEzzle  20,537 views     9:56     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...                Skip navigation       Sign in Search         Loading...            Close           Yeah, keep it  Undo  Close       This video is unavailable.         Watch Queue Queue Watch Queue Queue   Remove all Disconnect         The next video is starting stop    Loading...          Watch Queue  Queue  __count__/__total__                       Ditch the ads.       Loading...      Want music and videos with zero ads? Get YouTube Red.         Working...            Not now  Try it free                                                     Find out why Close       WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY?                 ARCHIEzzle               Loading...        Unsubscribe from ARCHIEzzle?    Cancel  Unsubscribe           Working...            Subscribe Subscribed Unsubscribe 49K             Loading...          Loading...              Working...                Add to   Want to watch this again later?  Sign in to add this video to a playlist.  Sign in    Share   More      Report    Need to report the video?  Sign in to report inappropriate content.  Sign in       Transcript      Statistics     Add translations   41,281 views         947   Like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     948    23   Don't like this video?  Sign in to make your opinion count.  Sign in     24            Loading...            Loading...      Transcript      The interactive transcript could not be loaded.         Loading...         Loading...       Rating is available when the video has been rented.     This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.      Published on Dec 19, 2016 WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF DYING IN THE MILITARY? Archiezzle answers a viewer question on how to overcome the fear of death. What are the chances of dying in the Army? What are the odds of dying? Why you should not be afraid of dying. Focusing on life and living it with your family. Live life to the fullest. âœ…âœ… SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE VIDEOS HERE: http://www.youtube.com/user/archiezzl... Don't forget to hit that LIKE if you support the channel to help it grow. SUBSCRIBE to get notified for new videos! I Appreciate all the support guys! #ARCHIEzzle #Archies ******************************************* âœ… FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/ARCHIEzzle âœ… INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/archie_masi... âœ… SNAPCHAT - ARCHIEzzle âœ… ARMY PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... âœ… GOOGLE PLUS: https://plus.google.com/+ARCHIEzzle/ ******************************************* For business inquiries: âœ…âœ… Email: archiezzle@gmail.com ******************************************* âœ…âœ…*** Shirts *** https://www.younityclothing.com  Use promo code "Archie" @ checkout for 10% discount My opinions in my videos about the US ARMY and the Military as a whole does not represent anyone. They are my own based on experience. My Goal here on YouTube is to release my creativity and thoughts about LIFE and MILITARY. Music: https://soundcloud.com/gbeats/     Category   People & Blogs     License   Standard YouTube License       Show more  Show less       Loading...                 Autoplay    When autoplay is enabled, a suggested video will automatically play next.       Up next       Marine Greg Buckley Knew He Would Be Killed In Afghanistan  - Duration: 4:12.  AmericanNetworkNews  454,148 views     4:12               TOP 5 Misconceptions about the U.S. ARMY & Military! BIG FAT LIE about Enlisted life!  - Duration: 8:16.  ARCHIEzzle  42,101 views     8:16      5 Things That Will Impress Your Drill Sergeants At Basic Training  - Duration: 12:16.  Matt Ward  862,133 views     12:16      ARMY INFANTRY LIFE  - Duration: 8:11.  ARCHIEzzle  117,679 views     8:11      Fear of DEATH and Deployments in the military?  - Duration: 9:03.  NICKY MGTV  5,542 views     9:03      US Army Paratroopers â€¢ Get Off My Plane  - Duration: 5:19.  Gung Ho Vids  2,021,676 views     5:19      5 Things To NEVER Say To A Drill Sergeant!  - Duration: 9:30.  Matt Ward  153,472 views     9:30      WARNING : The military is NOT for you!  - Duration: 8:23.  ARMYprinncess  26,280 views     8:23      6 Reasons To Not Join the Military  - Duration: 5:46.  Jarhead6  173,320 views     5:46      US Marines confront fake military veteran  - Duration: 6:38.  Jeff  3,470,481 views     6:38      THE LIES MILITARY RECRUITERS TELL YOU  - Duration: 9:56.  BullyJuice  398,454 views     9:56      Real Talk w/ A COMBAT VETERAN (Drew Hernandez) Deployment, Military Police, Army Life before & After  - Duration: 16:01.  ARCHIEzzle  11,873 views     16:01      5 Reasons NOT To Join The Military!  - Duration: 11:58.  Matt Ward  89,007 views     11:58      Chillstep 24/7 Livestream | Chill, Ambient & Study Music ðŸŽ§    MixHound  735 watching Live now          NO ONE CAN PASS THE ASVAB! WHY EDUCATION IS IMPORTANT IN THE MILITARY!  - Duration: 5:50.  ARCHIEzzle  22,113 views     5:50      The Marines - PBS Documentary (full length)  - Duration: 1:25:40.  Iron Wolf Industrial  2,259,571 views     1:25:40      5 TIPS on HOW TO PROPERLY TALK TO ARMY DRILL SERGEANTS in Army Basic Training  - Duration: 5:20.  ARCHIEzzle  19,068 views     5:20      US ARMY INFANTRY "GRUNT VS  POG"  - Duration: 6:51.  ARCHIEzzle  64,584 views     6:51      What to Bring to Basic Training and What to Buy When you Arrive!  - Duration: 12:36.  ARCHIEzzle  104,570 views     12:36      3 Things Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You  - Duration: 8:01.  Matt Ward  103,244 views     8:01     Loading more suggestions...   Show more                Language: English     Location: United States     Restricted Mode: Off    History  Help     Loading...       Loading...       Loading...     About  Press  Copyright  Creators  Advertise  Developers  +YouTube   Terms  Privacy  Policy & Safety  Send feedback   Test new features              Loading...               Working...             Sign in to add this to Watch Later    Add to      Loading playlists...          The A.V. Club Deadspin Earther Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Splinter The Takeout The Root The Onion Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design Video Sploid Paleofuture io9 Science Review Field Guide Design What Were a U.S. Soldier's Odds of Dying in Each War? Kyle VanHemert 3/02/11 11:00am Filed to: data point Filed to: data point data point wars Stats Warfare 154 Edit Send to Editors Promote Share to Kinja Toggle Conversation tools Go to permalink Our perceptions of wars are pushed and pulled by myriad forces—their causes, their outcomes, their places in our national narrative, etc. But on the level of the individual, which was the deadliest? Nicholas Hobbes' Essential Militaria breaks down the stats for eleven historic conflicts: Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now • War of Independence: 2 percent (1 in 50) • War of 1812: 0.8 percent (1 in 127) • Indian Wars: 0.9 percent (1 in 106) • Mexican War: 2.2 percent (1 in 45) • Civil War: 6.7 percent (1 in 15) • Spanish-American War: 0.1 percent (1 in 798) • World War I: 1.1 percent (1 in 89) • World War II: 1.8 percent (1 in 56) • Korean War: 0.6 percent (1 in 171) • Vietnam War: 0.5 percent (1 in 185) • Persian Gulf War: 0.03 percent (1 in 3,162) I'm not trying to fight in any war, but if you strapped me in a time machine and made me pick one, I guess I'd go with the Spanish-American War. As long as I don't have to be in Teddy Roosevelt's regiment. [ Geekosystem ] Essential Militaria: Facts, Legends, and Curiosities About… From amazon 63 purchased by readers Gizmodo Media Group may get a commission Buy now You may also like Jalopnik Here&apos;s The Bugatti Chiron&apos;s Tacked-On American-Market Bumper Lumps Jason Torchinsky 4/12/17 2:28pm Deadspin Presenting The 2018 Name Of The Year Bracket Sam Gutelle 3/28/18 10:29am Gizmodo Just 53 People Used the App That Let Cambridge Analytica Swipe Data From Up to 311,127 Australians Matt Novak Today 10:25am Recent from Kyle VanHemert 2 28 30.9K You Don&apos;t Want to Live Inside This Perpetually Rainy House Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 7:00pm 1 4 4.4K Photofon Shows Just the Photos in Your Twitter Timeline Kyle VanHemert 6/06/11 4:40pm 1 35 27.5K iWork for iPhone Kyle VanHemert 5/31/11 6:00pm Share Tweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.                ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of getting killed in the army?    I was thinking of joining the Army because stuff like that, plus Law enforcement such as being a cop, intrigue me.  what are the chances of getting killed? And what all can you do when you join?  thanks         Follow      11 answers  11    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Tyra Banks      Bobby Lashley      Stephanie McMahon      Jon Rahm      John McVie      AARP      Rafael Nadal      Alexi Ashe      Rocket Mortgage      UnitedHealthcare          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  I did the Math on this not too long ago before my 3rd deployment and I came up with .8% for one 12 month tour. However, this does not take into account that when I did this there were 100 soldiers a month dieing last month their were 5. Also if you are in a job that goes out of the wire every day your odds are much higher than the cook that makes sure chow is hot. Your odds of getting wounded are much higher though roughly 10 times that of dieing.  If you are really afraid of being injured please choose another job. I don't need another cowardly soldier that is ducking leaving the wire every time we have a mission, lord knows we already have plenty of them.      Source(s):  18 years in the Army    Quickspic  · 10 years ago       11  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment          Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                          Your odds of being killed as a male 18-24 are 200-300 hundred times higher in the USandA than as an Army or Marine member in Iraq AND Afghanistan combined. Even the NY Times agreed with this calculation.       jim  · 10 years ago      0  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         When you consider how many people there are in the Army and how many have been killed so far, I think you'll agree that you stand more of a chance of being killed in your every day life especially in larger cities.  I personally know many soldiers who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan that have been there two and three times and most have not even seen action while others had a lot of fun while in action but I have yet to meet one that regretted joining...Well except the ones that didn't make it through boot camp.       Source(s):  US Marines 76-77 Former law enforcement    JundaKell  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       I don't have exact stats, but I understand that some 4,000 military personnel have died in Iraq since it started over there.  That's an average of 800 per year.  I'm also given to understand that at any time, there are over 130,000 troops in Iraq.  On those numbers alone, your chance of dying in any year is about 6 out of a 1,000.  Or 994 chance out of 1,000 that you'll live.  Of course, those don't count every death, including accidents, sickness, and personnel who die from non-military action, such as driving on the highway back home, but those odds are about the same, whether you're Army or a civilian.  Considering the U.S. death toll EVERY year is 16,000 for murder, or that nearly 50,000 people die EACH year in traffic accidents, I'd say your odds of dying in the Army due to military duty is pretty marginal.       demos_jones  · 10 years ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Chances of being killed are small.  If you want to be a cop, join the Army and go with Military Police.  It will make it easier to become a cop if and when you get out of the military.       Jimmy Jazz  · 10 years ago      5  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    1 comment            Loading ...     Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         chances of getting killed hmm depends on where you're at, what mos you are, how ****** up your leadership is and how well you pay attention to your surroundings, soldiers die everyday, sometimes it seems like its a roll of the dice, now dont let that discourage you from doing what you want to do, research the mos that are in the army, and make an educated decision, dont make a half assed decision without all the knowledge you can get, and show up at a duty station with a poor attitude, thats what puts soldiers lives in danger       thedolphinflogger  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     3  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       u have a better chance of walking around detroit and dying... or even driving a car       Rafael T  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       if you are worried about dying for your country, you are much better off joining the coast guard or just remaining a civilian. as for the army, it will depends on how well you and the people next to you are trained.       Source(s):  USMC..oorah    Josh B  · 10 years ago      3  Thumbs up     5  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Your chances of dying are better in a car than dying in battle. You will never regret service to your country.       Source(s):  Life member VFW    Plumber Rock  · 10 years ago      8  Thumbs up     4  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     join the marines.   you wont regret it. my brother is a Marine, he left a kid, came back a man, came back a Marine  look at this picture, and seriously consider the USMC  http://www.stuff.hqubed.com/uploads/army%20vs%20marines.jpg       Anonymous  · 10 years ago      1  Thumbs up     6  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Explore Digital Home Security   Need debt consolidation loans?   Best Home Security System?   Get an MBA while working              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    Chances of getting killed in army?        Chances of women getting killed in Army today?        Army officer chances of getting killed?       More questions       Are chances higher getting killed in America or in the Military ( Army)?        What is the chance of getting killed in the US army?          Answer Questions    How long can your hair be in the army?        Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?        Is it ok for a 257 lb guy to join the us military?        Sparta in 2018?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  7 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                          ⌂ Home Mail Flickr Tumblr News Sports Finance Entertainment Lifestyle Answers Groups Mobile More ⋁ Weather Politics Tech Shopping     Yahoo Answers                         👤  Sign in     ✉  Mail      ⚙  Help     Account Info  Help  Suggestions  Send Feedback                                 Politics & Government   Military    Next           Chances of dying in the Army?    I never really worried about dying if I were to join (I'm currently in Army ROTC), but I had this SCARY dream last night and now I'm scared as hell.  What are my chances to die in the Army if I were to be an Intel Officer as my MOS?  Is it easier to die here in the US like in a car crash?  Thanks   Update:  Thanks for the responses guys.  Yeah I guess the chance of dying in the USA isn't that much different.. Besides, I'd rather die engaging the enemy than in a car crash in Interstate 25.         Follow      13 answers  13    Report Abuse           Are you sure you want to delete this answer?  Yes  No                         Sorry, something has gone wrong.     Trending Now      Tyra Banks      Bobby Lashley      Stephanie McMahon      Jon Rahm      John McVie      AARP      Rafael Nadal      Alexi Ashe      Rocket Mortgage      UnitedHealthcare          Answers    Relevance    Rating  Newest  Oldest                Best Answer:  Percentage wise you're more likely to die in a car accident or crime.  Intel officer is a great choice for lots of reasons.  The military is in a dangerous business to be sure, but the likelihood of death in America is pretty high too.  As for the number who have died in Iraq, keep in mind many would have died in that same time period with no war.  They would have died in off duty accidents, training accidents and suicide and I'm tired of hearing people say the suicide rates are higher now in the military.  That's total BS!!  We have lower incidents of suicide even though the age group 18-27 is one of the highest in society, because he teach prevention programs, intervention and track every suicide.  The military's rate is always lower than the civilian sector and lower during war.      Source(s):      Reformed  · 1 decade ago       4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment             Add a comment             Submit               · just now              Asker's rating                   Only a fool would tell you that you would not die or get seriously hurt.  It is always a possibility and that is one of the reasons why those who undertake this kind of lifestyle deserve our utmost gratitude.  As an intel officer, I will tell you that there are fewer chances of you being in harms way than say an infantry officer.  It all really depends on what you do and where you find yourself.  Keep in mind that in this current war, there have been far fewer deaths for the number of troops we have over there than in any other war past.  In Vietnam alone we lost about 58,000 servicemen in just under a decade of fighting.  To date we've lost about 4,000 in nearly the same amount of time.  I am not trying to say that you will not die or that nothing will ever happen to you, but if you ever were to join the army and have the least probability of dying, now would be the time.  With our medical capabilities too, we are able to evacuate people from the Point of Injury or POI to the necessary level of care in record time.  What used to take hours if not days can take a matter of minutes.  Usually no more than an hour.  This is because of the incredible response times of our Medical Evacuation systems that can retrieve a wounded soldier from anywhere on the battlefield.       Eagle1 Fox2  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         All I have to say is prepare yourself mentally for combat no matter what your MOS is. Some intel guys (Marines) that I know of actually went out to on patrol, but most likely you would be in the COC, looking over you intel Soldiers and I would assume that you won't go to out on patrol as often as other Soldiers. You have a likelihood of dying a car accident than if you were an intel Officer. If the dream still bothers you, I suggest you talk to your CO in charge so this will not have a negative impact on you later on.       Source(s):  USMCR    ____________________________  · 1 decade ago      5  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Lets just say the odds are about even!  But if you are afraid of dying by serving in the Army, then the odds would have to go up!  Someone who is scared is going to be too cautious to be of much use, if you didn't realize that before, be aware of it now!  Many of those men who are serving now were in the reserves, many had no idea they were going to be sent into a war when they joined, some have been sent back several X's!  If you are scared then don't join the Army or Marines, join the Navy or Air force, they are somewhat safer.       geegee  · 1 decade ago      2  Thumbs up     2  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Don't worrie about dying man. Life is for living. You are going to die one day. So do something you love. There is more to the army then just fighting and dying. You become apart of something bigger then you have ever seen. You are an American. You are the best of the best. Look in your history books. HOOAH!       armyharvey1821  · 1 decade ago      8  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                         there is actually a higher chance of you dying in detroit.im not kidding but also not that many people died in the military over the years we've been to. more people die in america than our soldiers do in the middle east.if you were worried about dying you should move to like wyoming the least populated state or North dakota       Three Dog  · 1 decade ago      3  Thumbs up     1  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                     There are over 2 million members in the US Military, 4,000 have died in a time of war in over a span of 5 years, you do the math. The chances aren't all that high, probably higher in Detroit or somewhere.       Anonymous  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Listen to your NCO's and try not to do anything..stupid.  You'll be fine, you'll probably be a fobbit anyway.       Hjaduk  · 1 decade ago      4  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       only 30% higher then if you lived in detroit....i'm being serious. it really depends upon your job, truck driver not so good, techincal much better       Untamed Rose  · 1 decade ago      9  Thumbs up     0  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                       Probably high especially because they keep sending the soldiers back over and over and over and over again. Suicide rate has climbed and ptsd is a sure bet when you come home. Think about you decision carefully and then do what you think is best.       suzy  · 1 decade ago      0  Thumbs up     9  Thumbs down       Report Abuse    Comment               Add a comment             Submit               · just now                 Pagination   1   2   next     Report Abuse   I think this question violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this question violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this answer violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this answer violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel      Report Abuse   I think this comment violates the Community Guidelines   Chat or rant, adult content, spam, insulting other members, show more  I think this comment violates the Terms of Service  Harm to minors, violence or threats, harassment or privacy invasion, impersonation or misrepresentation, fraud or phishing, show more   Additional Details   If you believe your intellectual property has been infringed and would like to file a complaint, please see our Copyright/IP Policy   Report Abuse    Cancel        Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these?    Time for a Caribbean cruise?   Need a Home Security Safe?   Consolidate Your Student Loans   Try for your MBA online?              Ask a question  usually answered in minutes!         Expand»        Details     Details        Existing questions      More       Tell us some more  Upload in Progress      Upload failed. Please upload a file larger than 100x100 pixels  We are experiencing some problems, please try again.  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG.  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM.  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).  You can only upload a photo or a video.  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b>  Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>  Video should be smaller than <b>600mb/5 minutes</b> Photo should be smaller than <b>5mb</b>            Related Questions    What is the chances of dying in the army?        Whats the chances of dying in the United States Army?        What are the chances of dying if I join the BRITISH army?       More questions       Chance of dying in the army?        What are the chances of dying in the army reserve?          Answer Questions    Going through a tough time in life. After high school I didnt think everything would be so depressing. I cant find a job, should I join army?        Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?        Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?        Will WW3 soon starts in Syria ?         Trending      I'm a resident of New Jersey. Can I join the US Military?  13 answers      Can you join the United States Navy at 65 years of age?  14 answers      Is 16 too young to join the Army?  12 answers     More questions       I weigh 255 lbs. Can I join the US Army?  18 answers      Is Russia likely to attack us or will they just start a proxy war?  9 answers      Im depressed. Didnt know life was going to be so stressful after highschool. Dad is bugging me about getting a job But no one is hiring me.?  7 answers                       Terms    Privacy    AdChoices    RSS                                      MORE Sign In Join    54    Soapboxie » Military     10 Awful Things About the Army Nobody Tells You Updated on August 8, 2017   Cecil Kenmill   more   Source       Disclosure Now, I know what you're thinking already but this isn't that. I'm not bashing the military or America. Also, I don't want to scare you because the Army isn't scary. If you sincerely want to serve, then that's awesome!  So what's this about? Let's put it this way: if you want to buy a car, you can go to the dealer and stare at it endlessly. You can walk around it as many times as you want, maybe even kick the tires. But remember: tires can be changed. You have to look under the hood. If you want to make the right decision, you have to do your homework. This article will help you do that.  I focus on the Army because it's the only branch I served in. I can't speak for other branches. To be fair, I have another article titled 7 Awesome Things About the Army Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You . Take a look at it after you read this one.  Finally, I refer to the soldier as a "he." I do this only to keep things simple. I know there are many female service members. I am proud to have served alongside them. Thank you for understanding.   Ten Awful Things About the Army No One Tells You About   10. Identity theft is a threat and it's just as bad for veterans. You might think that if you worked for the Army, you'd be safe, but let's get this out of the way right now: identity theft is rampant for service members, veterans, and their families.  If you haven't memorized your social security number by now, you will within the first few days of in-processing. Throughout your entire military career, it will be used so often on so much paperwork that you will get numb to it. It's even on your dog tags! Why? There are so many people in the military that the quickest, easiest way to identify each individual is to do so by number. You'll notice a lot of private sector companies do this as well.  Every form you fill out is another opportunity for a criminal to get your name, social security number, and date of birth. In minutes, you can become an identity theft casualty. If you're fighting in the latest war, you won't know for months! Instead of confetti in your ticker-tape parade, you'll have bills and more paperwork—this time with the credit bureaus and collection agencies. Oh, and this doesn't end after your time is up: It's just as easy to nab a veteran's identity.  But why would criminals go for a single target when they can carpet bomb millions of hardworking, taxpaying Americans at once? Computers are stolen from the homes and cars of government officials so often that the media thinks it's old news. Do any of them get thrown in prison? Fired? Disciplined? No. Also the government has never been shy about hiring contractors to handle office work that contains such sensitive information. I don't know if this makes it better or worse for our troops.  So why does the Department of Defense insist on social security numbers? If anyone has that one figured out, please post your answer in the comment section below. A soldier was once issued a serial number that served the same purpose. No more. Now, he's fighting on two fronts.       9. The Army is not adult daycare. This misconception gets people killed. One of the things I despise most is the idea that the Army serves the soldier. The Army doesn't serve you: You serve your country by joining the Army. Fortunately, there are few people that believe this because Basic Combat Training (BCT) does an outstanding job of smoking that idea out of their heads. But still, they're out there, making life for other soldiers far worse and sometimes more dangerous.  The Army does have benefits that help soldiers and families throughout their lives. These benefits are not available anywhere else, so it makes sense for civilians to join the military to get them. That's not what I'm talking about. In fact, I highly recommend you get involved in all the programs you can. You will be a better soldier now and a better civilian afterwards. You will make America great!  What I am talking about is the idea that the Army is just a job that's impossible to get fired from, a steady source of income for anyone who can twiddle his thumbs and stay out of sight. Usually, I don't care what people think. However, this kind of attitude usually leads to sub-par performance.  A soldier might get out of shape, forget minute but important parts of certain procedures, not take inspections seriously, and so on. Everyone else in the team now has a larger load to bear.  Friend, the days of Beetle Bailey are over. It's funny to see it in a comic strip but to see it in real life is disgusting. If you're the guy who thinks the Army is Club Med for slackers, then the rest of this article will scare the living you-know-what out of you.   Catch-22: 50th Anniversary Edition A lot of things about the Army don't make sense. Catch-22 pokes fun at them and the bureaucracy that involves any large organization. It's a classic.  Buy Now    8. It will destroy your soul. David Wong published an outstanding article on Cracked.com, 9 Types of Jobs that Will Destroy Your Soul, which aptly describes the roles people play in the workplace. I must warn you that the language is rough, but every word of it is true. Every soldier has experienced at least seven of these roles at some point during his military career. I will not re-write what the article says, but I will tell you that every soldier can, at any moment, become:  The punching bag , who bears the brunt of complaints but can do nothing to help.  The walking dead , facing sleep deprivation and irregular hours.  The laughingstock, doing a job everyone makes fun of.  The cog , performing endless tasks with mindless repetition.  The rat in a cage : A manager responsible for those he has no authority over.  The assistant cromulationist: A highly-specialized job that is impossible to explain.  The Bob: The job that makes everyone else's job harder.  The girl or the "lone representative of your gender in the workplace" (this applies to female soldiers).  The article is hilarious. If you are a civilian, you will appreciate it, but if you are a soldier, you live it every day.       Source   7. You are on call 24/7, even when you're not. Ever wonder why service members tell time differently? For example, it's not 11 p.m., it's 2300 hrs. This is because war never sleeps. Those who think otherwise have another thing coming. Battle is about maneuvering units and materials at a moment's notice to secure a tactical advantage. This can easily happen at night and easily make no sense to you.  No matter what your rank or specialization, the Army can wake you up at 0200 hrs and make you guard a port-o-potty in the middle of nowhere, thousands of miles from any national security threat. All you'll have to protect yourself is a broom and a canteen. You have no say in the matter, and nobody is required to explain anything.  You're not even safe on vacation. Oh, did you know the Army includes weekends and holidays as vacation days? That came as a shock to me. When you go on vacation, you are expected to fill out a lot more paperwork than you would at a company in the private sector. The Army wants to know where you are even when you're on vacation, down to the hotel you'll be staying in.  Why? In case of national emergency, the Army has to know where you are so it can summon you if they need you. Even if you are far from your base, you may be contacted to report to a closer one. This is highly unlikely, but it is a soldier's responsibility.   6. Your First Amendment rights are gone—this is the cost of protecting everyone else's. Most service members easily accept this. I did. Even though I knew what I believed in, I also knew it wasn't fair to use my uniform to push my personal beliefs on anyone else. The people who love to sell their beliefs wrapped in a flag with a pretty yellow ribbon on top will be annoyed to see that their rights to free speech are tossed right out the window.  Don't get me wrong, you can always be an armchair activist. Maybe even go to a few events. However, the second you identify yourself as a service member, you're in deep trouble: You fight for America, you don't speak for it.  Still, the Army seems to favor Christianity. "Oh Lord" this and "praise Jesus" that. This shouldn't surprise anyone as the United States is populated by many Christians. As a Christian myself, I never did take it personally. However, many other soldiers—Jews, Muslims, atheists, etc.—to this day are forced to put their beliefs in the back seat while fighting for a constitution that guarantees religious freedom.  There is even a non-profit Military Religious Freedom Foundation that fights for the religious equality of American soldiers in the US military. But don't bring it up at any of the "prayer breakfasts" you might find yourself at. Think that was a joke? Join and see. Just don't spill the salt.       Source   5. When you join, so does your family—it's everyone's sacrifice. I was born in a military family. Later, when my mother was pregnant with my brother, my father decided not to re-enlist. By then, he had saved enough to start his own business. He did so and never looked back. Decisions like this are terrifying. Who do you turn your back on: Your family or your country? Of course, it's not all always black and white but it does make life tough for everyone--even for parents of soldiers. Although military marriages are no more likely to end than civilian marriages, they are faced with unique challenges that not every couple is prepared for. For example, a military spouse is not as likely to find a career. A potential employer has to face the possibility that the employee might leave with only a few day's notice if the spouse is stationed elsewhere. An Army wife understands that her soldier can be deployed at any time, many times. During this time, she holds the fort. I hate to say this, but it's a lot like being a single mom. It takes a very special woman to be an Army wife. Resources on the base are there to help, but they are overwhelmed. It's becoming so much of a problem that countless non-profit organizations are popping up to fill in the gap. There is no reason you can't have a happy marriage and great career in the military. Just remember that when you join, so does your family.   4. You will be broke. In the service, nobody gets rich. A person may join for the bonus or to pay off student loans. These are definitely great benefits. Also, the military pays for housing, food, medical, and so on. Further, bases have gyms and recreational facilities. So what's going on?  All these benefits are real, but the actual take-home pay is low. Take a look at the take-home pay chart and look towards the bottom at "Enlisted Military Pay" E-1 through E-4. That's what the youngest of our troops have to subsist on, per month. Most young, single soldiers survive, but it's our military families that are getting burned. The reasons a military family may live in poverty are many—too many.  Oddly enough, many people actually believe that poverty in the military is a myth. As a medic, I've seen military family members attempt suicide because they are living this myth. I've seen countless programs such as Army Emergency Relief and Adopt a US Soldier try to save our soldiers' families. I've seen laws such as FY 2007 Military Authorization Act passed that, among other things, clearly make it illegal for payday lenders to prey upon our soldiers.  Poverty in the military is very real. Here are 7 Reasons Our Troops are Poor . You can always join and try to strike it rich if you want to prove me wrong.       The Working Poor: Invisible in America Soldier is a blue-collar job. Thousands work from desks, cubicles and offices but in the end combat readiness requires sweat, stress and pain. Those already in combat tack on even longer hours and danger.  Buy Now    3. You will see government waste. You will burn taxpayer money. Okay, let's take a break. Hungry? Make yourself a snack: two eggs, any style (I like mine scrambled). Once you've made these eggs, throw them away, right into the garbage. Then make some more. These are for you. Enjoy!  It was heartbreaking, right? Throwing away those perfectly fine eggs? Well, that's what happens in the military. And I'm not talking about war profiteering, I'm talking about regular, day-in-day-out procedures. I used eggs in my example because eggs must be tossed if they're sitting around too long after being cooked. The military throws away a lot of food every day. When it comes to feeding the troops, it's better to throw away food rather than come up short.  Now that I think about it, the real reason KP (kitchen patrol) is so tough is not because we're scrubbing pots and pans in the steaming kitchen. The real punishment is that you see so much food being thrown out. Perfectly good food that nobody will eat but must be thrown away to prevent food poisoning. Can you throw away a whole chocolate cake no one has touched? How about a tub of ice cream? Can you do it again and again? You will if you sign up!  In fairness, there's a lot of waste in any organization. Even the most profitable companies on earth throw things away. Sometimes it takes too much time and effort to save little things like staples, paperclips, or attack helicopters. Sometimes it takes too much time and effort to bring home thousands of perfectly functioning assault rifles. It's just easier to order new ones from the defense contractors. It gives people jobs, too. Everyone wins! Well, except for the taxpayers.  This was one of the toughest parts of being in the Army for me: throwing things away when, on the other side of the base, the family of a junior enlisted soldier was living in poverty.     2. You might get seriously hurt. Casualties happen in war. War is hell. People know the risks when they join. It comes with the territory. Yeah, but I'm not talking about that.  What people don't know is that this can happen at any time, even stateside. Even if there is no ammunition or ordinance around, a soldier can get seriously and permanently injured.  After years of PT (physical training), a soldier may have problems with knees and other joints. He can easily have the same problems pro basketball players have but without the same salaries. Any civilian can get injured, but it is more likely in the military because you are more active and working longer hours with more dangerous equipment.  Medics are ready, safety policies are in place, and your buddies are looking out for you, but sometimes this isn't enough. As a medic, I've seen twenty-year-old trainees walking with canes. Canes in the 21st century.   1. You are held to a higher standard. . . forever. And the number one awful thing about the Army nobody tells you is that you will forever be held to a higher standard!  Lexington and Concorde, Gettysburg, Normandy... soldiers before you have paved the way. It is now your turn. If you think this is an honor, then you are right. What you might not know is that this is also a huge responsibility, and it will last until the day you die.  Your friends will expect you to be in great shape even after you are discharged. Your family will expect you to be calm and patient. Your coworkers will expect you to lead the way and handle stress easily. Everyone you know will expect you to win. Nobody will expect you to complain. If you oversleep, get drunk, get poor, gain weight, and so on, then you will disappoint the Army in the eyes of the civilian.  This responsibility brings out the best in soldiers and veterans, but it lasts forever, and it will never be easy.  If you can do it, if you want the chance, you are ready to join the Army! Good luck!   Nobody's stopping you Still want to join the Army?  Heck yeah! I don't sweat the small stuff  Nah. I'd better not.  Been there, done that... See results   Questions & Answers                     Related Military 7 Bizarre Things About the Army Nobody Tells You by Cecil Kenmill 3  Military 7 Awesome Things About the Army Your Recruiter Will Never Tell You by Cecil Kenmill 16  Military 10 Things the Army Teaches You (Faster Than Anyone Else) by Cecil Kenmill 1        Popular Military A Parents' Guide to Surviving Air Force Basic Training (BMTS) by mikicagle 155  Military The Truth: What Happens When You Go AWOL by James Wassinger 124  Military How to Get Army Promotion Points & Get Promoted Faster by Megan Sisko 32        What do you think? Anything to add? Submit a Comment You Must Sign In To Comment To comment on this article, you must sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account. Jay C OBrien 3 weeks ago  from Houston, TX USA I  suggest service in the National Guard instead of the military. The purpose of the Guard is to assist/help people; the purpose of the military is to kill people. Getting paid to kill makes you a paid killer. Humanitarian aid is better than bombs for overseas actions.  Leland Johnson 4 weeks ago  from Midland MI you made some good points; didn't agree with all of them, eg you don't have to be broke to be a soldier, and being one doesn't have to break you.  In fact it's a great place to learn how to manage money.  Plus, you learn a vocation and get the GI bill post service to go to college.  Not a bad deal- if you survive!  Thanks for serving.  I was Army too.  victor 2 years ago  from India It's a great hub. "You're held to a higher standard...forever" is the ultimate reward we get from the people for the sacrifice we have done. Having served in Defense for 20 years, I agree with your approach. At any point of our life when we look back the sacrifice we made, we can't find any regret. Well written.  Jay C OBrien 2 years ago  from Houston, TX USA My step father had PTSD after the Korean action.  He took it out on us, until my mother divorced him.  Someone please explain to me why we fight overseas when we are separated by two great oceans.  Anthony J Vita 3 years ago  Thank you for this great lens that will be very useful for anyone considering joining the Army.  rob2922 3 years ago  After serving 22 years in the British forces I can relate to a few of your points but not all , in any walk of life there are difficult times, But as a soldier there is also some great times and benefits, and for those who try a great sense of achievement and pride can be had that very few others ever experience.  Echo Phoenix 3 years ago  Thank you for your service and this excellent lens :D what is most frightening to me are the millions of war veterans now homeless on our streets, I have heard many of their stories and it is a disgrace the way our gov &amp; society treat the situation with such indifference. This must change, it should be a genuine priority.  austinsfaux 3 years ago  Been in the Army for 16 years, and got another 4 on my contract......I SHOULD HAVE JOINED THE AIR FORCE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! True story:  I was in charge of 2 younger soldiers, and we were with three Marines.  The senior Marine and I were of the same rank and he had 2 younger Marines with him.  The 2 young soldiers and 2 young Marines started fighting over which branch was better.  The 2 young soldiers kept saying, "Army Army Army!" The two young Marines kept saying, "Marines Marines Marines!"  The Senior Marine and I both looked at each other and said, "Air Force!"  yellowdogdemjab 3 years ago  There's nothing awful about the Army. George Washington hired Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben to institute these basic rules for service men's behaviour because They were getting their behinds kicked by the British. Colonel Steuben's "soldiers are property" mentality saved the US Army &amp; was adopted by every branch of the military. That's why we have enjoyed 327 years of military superiority. If u wanna  have more rights? Join a union! If you wanna have it easy, study web page design. To quote Drill Sgt. Har twig from The Movie Full Metal Jacket, "You know the one thing I hate is an unlocked Foot locker, if it weren't for @&amp;$);;$@@ like you, there wouldn't be any thievery in this world now would there?"  Robert Connor 3 years ago  from Michigan Its all what you do with the resources given.  Robert Connor 3 years ago  from Michigan We salute your lens and our troops!  yellowdogdemjab 3 years ago  @wiwiwi2: It just depends what your recruiter can get you qualified for, There are thousands of jobs in the navy that transition very well to civilian life. In the Navy, you will most likely spend the first 4-5 years aboard a ship, &amp; come home if you're lucky every 3-5 months. Navy Seals are combat troops, &amp; I'm sure the brave men aboard the USS Cole never thought they would be bombed by a fishing boat? If you join the Navy, try to get into some type of Radar school. That type of engineering is cutting edge. You will be qualified for many electrical engineering jobs as a radar tech. Make sure you get what you are promised from your recruiter in a contract. You don't want to end up being the chief barnacle scraper, but everyone will participate in basic maintenance duties.  centralheating24 3 years ago  Nice information about army. Not everyone knows that. Thanks!  docwhalen08 3 years ago  Not the worst experience in my life and the after service benefits are completely worth it along with other things, such as getting to serve your country.  EnthusiasmMadame 3 years ago  Thank you for serving and for the information you shared. I respect everyone who has served and who is willing to serve in our military. I have had family members who have served and some still doing so. My one regret is not having signed up when I had the opportunity.  Niktravelfit 3 years ago  Important info, thanks a lot for sharing.  jwinningcorless 3 years ago  If you are scared your pussy ass doesn't need to join. It is obviously something that not everyone can put up with. They treat you the way they do to get you mentally tough for the times you are in war and people are dying around you. You need to be able to do what is told to make sure not only survival of yourself but of the squad,platoon, company etc. If you are weak minded and weak in general joining the military isn't for you.  misserinc 3 years ago  @anonymous: I'm a future soldier and I was informed by my sergeant that the minimum score requirement is a 31 in the army but if you want better mos options a higher score would be best you say you have a score of 36 that's pretty high score  squeezemysausage 3 years ago  Why join a military that doesn't care about you, just ask that Marine sitting over in that Mexican Prison not that far from the US. No man left behind is BULL! naw,, be all you can be by raising your own family. Death isn't cool. making all these commercials like Death is cool. IT'S NOT. That child wants her Father back not a freaking picture! Tell her why he died, for nothing. Sucks.. Money hungry mafia.  HakunaMatata19 3 years ago  I am an Army wife myself. My husband joined because he couldn't find work even though he has a degree. He recently just got his security clearance after being in a year. He had debts that he had to pay which was one reason he joined. His MOS was changed because of the security clearance so now he's doing something he doesn't really want to do. It has tested my strength when he was gone for BCT and AIT and now it has tested me being away from my family. I am trying to find work and hopefully get a job on base in my field. It's hard with one car though. There are definitely a lot of positives and negatives to serving.  wiwiwi2 3 years ago  @vineliner57: hi vineliner im a male just getting out of high school I want to enlist in the navy 1:do you have to fight on the ground like in Iraq or Afghanistan 2: what are the basic things you do as a sailor like a day in life  Donna Cook 3 years ago  Amazing lens! Thank you so very much for your service.  OUTFOXprevention1 4 years ago  Interesting!  Some things I haven't thought before...  Dawn Romine 4 years ago  from Nebraska My sons are Marines and I've heard the same thing from the oldest. It's for some people and other people military life is not for them. It's the attitude you take with you in any profession, there is waste, there is politics, there is the "I have to do this to keep my job" there are on call professions. There are your jerks and slackers in many fields. But go in with your eyes open. Know that you will not change anything, accept and embrace whatever job you do in life, even if it's the military.  TerriCarr 4 years ago  Personally, I could never join the military. I am just not cut out for it. I hope the changes so prevalent elsewhere in the world sweep through the military as well. There is an article in GoodVeg....hmmm, don't have the link handy, that says that the Norwegian army is going vegetarian one day a week. Sounds to me like a sign of hope.  Hal Gall 4 years ago  from Bloomington, IN My son in law came back from a tour in Iraq with PTSD, and has been exposed to DU. I would not recommend to anyone joining the military at this moment in time, especially with the war mongers we have running our country. And yes, I did 11 years in the Navy. "Join the Navy, see the world". Well the world is 76% water!  anonymous 4 years ago  @anonymous: I think the US Army is still taking anyone who even put their name on the ASVAB and spelled it correctly. They have a habit of taking the immoral and low class whereas the other branches don't. I wouldn't let your score get you down. The Army will take you  SBPI Inc 4 years ago  Everyone has their own perspective o everything.  Agree or disagree is a freedom for all Americans.  I say, thank God for the Freedoms we have and lets ALL make sure that no foreign or domestic actions will ever cause a loss of those freedoms.  In that cause we should all act as One. Jonathan  Bigwas 4 years ago  from Philippines want to live longer,join the airforce,hooray army.  chuckholmes301 4 years ago  I did my time and enjoyed it, but don't miss the bull crap, government waste, and having someone own me.  Civilian life is great.  anonymous 4 years ago  i want to join but only got a score of 36 in my asvab idk if I should try to join the army with that score pleas help advis anything  Loretta Livingstone 5 years ago  from Chilterns, UK. An interesting lens. I don't intend to join the forces - which is  to their benefit, to be honest. But respect to those who do and who are good soldiers. I guess there are good and bad in every walk of life, but a good soldier deserves respect.  Alex-Gopson LM 5 years ago  Really interesting insight, not the type of thing you normally see.  #3 really surprised me, had no idea so much was wasted, thought it was rather the opposite. Thank you for service.  RussKeith 5 years ago  I had to laugh at the  guarding a port-o-potty line. Been There! Done That!  InfoCoop 5 years ago  Thank you for your candid writing and for your service to our country.  anonymous 5 years ago  A very interesting lens.  I didn't know the army didn't issue serial numbers anymore.  With the danger of identity theft, it would seem that the army would not put their soldiers at risk by using their Social Security number.  dream1983 5 years ago  Interesting lens, well done! Thumbs up  rawwwwwws lm 5 years ago  WOW.. Thanksf or sharing.  TwistedWiseman 5 years ago  I done my time, barely could stand it, the amount of human borderline stupidity is amazing! I can't stand it when one mamas boy starts whining that it's hard...NO IT'S NOT YOU PATHETIC IDIOT, deal with it.  combat-support 5 years ago  Resiliency training; hunt the good stuff.. Over 15 years of service between the Army and Army National Guard in support of OIF.  I love it, but doesn't mean everyone will, I do agree with many of your points, we humans are fragile.  Phoenix2361 5 years ago  Yes, this is the stuff the recruiters don't tell you.  Glad you did.  anonymous 5 years ago  As a citizen I am aware and thankful of the many sacrifices our Army does for our country.  WriterJanis2 5 years ago  This has been a real eye opener.  flycatcherrr 5 years ago  As a Canadian civilian, what I know about the US military is somewhere a fathom below nada, but I found this an interesting glimpse into what's really a very different world. You write very well and engagingly, Sarge; I'm always keen to see what you'll come up with next.  Michelle 5 years ago  from Central Ohio, USA Army retiree with 22 years. Yes, the Army has it's faults. It also has it's great points. How about a top 10 list of those too?! Great lens!  Melissa Miotke 5 years ago  from Arizona It seems criminal that those in the army are broke. They should be paid well for their service.  intermarks 5 years ago  Sometime, some people need to experience by their own self for them to believe it.  Nicole Pellegrini 5 years ago  from New Jersey A very thought-provoking and honest lens. Your personal experience really shines though and gives people a lot to think about before they consider joining.  Trixiesmom2u 5 years ago  I enjoyed this lens. My son was in Iraq in 2006-2007 as a gunner for a generals security squad in Baghdad.  Would love to also see the other argument, 10 Great Things etc.  IMKZRNU2 5 years ago  from Pacific Northwest My son is considering joining the armed forces when he turns 18...this lens has some very good information for him. Thanks!  cgbroome 5 years ago  This lens just makes me more proud of the men and women willing to make sacrifices for the rest of us.  Thank you!  Paul 5 years ago  from Liverpool, England Interesting and entertaining.  kburns421 lm 5 years ago  By the way, Catch-22 is one of my favorite books. Intense with a somewhat horrifying glimpse into what soldiers go through at times but still entertaining.  kburns421 lm 5 years ago  This is a great lens. It's very well written and gives people more information to make the right decision, information that they don't often get. It's good to know though as many people rush into the army expecting something it's not.       About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others. Sign In Join Military Show All Categories Connect with us About Us Editorial Policy Copyright Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © 2018 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.  working                        Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service  If you're worried about the dangers of enlisting, you should think about how dangerous these alternatives are -- and how much less job security you might have.            Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )    Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM       America loves its military. The vitriol heaped on returning Vietnam veterans in the 1960s and 1970s -- most of whom had no choice in the matter of their deployment -- caused such a public backlash that most Americans swung hard from anger to hero worship, and our default reaction to military service has been hero worship ever since. And why shouldn't it be? After all, no other profession explicitly asks its workforce to make the ultimate sacrifice.   Source: User DVIDSHUB via Flickr.   However, just because military servicemen or servicewomen might someday be asked to die in service to their country doesn't mean that they will . In fact, modern military service isn't even America's deadliest job! There are certainly a number of serious factors to consider before joining the military, including the commitment to sign away at least four years of your life and the stress of essentially being on call 25 hours a day (that's not a typo) for your entire enlistment, but if the threat of death is your primary concern, you may want to dig into the realities of U.S. military casualties before making up your mind.  Can you keep the peace and keep your life? Make no mistake -- people can and do die during military service. The Defense Manpower Data Center, one of the Department of Defense's analytical groups, has recorded 48,834 military personnel deaths from 1980 to 2010, which works out to 1,575 deaths per year. However, the American military is a huge organization, which has never slipped below 1.35 million active-duty servicemembers in any given year across all branches. There were 1.7 million active servicemembers on average per year from 1980 to 2010, and when you add in the full-time equivalent service hours of reserve forces, the United States has fielded nearly 1.9 million full-time equivalent servicemembers each year for the past three decades.  Because enlistment figures fluctuate from year to year, assessing military casualties based on the rate of death per 100,000 serving each year gives us a more consistent picture of the dangers faced by our servicemembers. Over these three decades of tracking, 82 servicemembers per 100,000 have died each year to all possible causes , and the leading cause of death is probably not the one you'd most suspect:  Source: Defense Casualty Analysis System.  Accidents are by far the most consistent danger to military personnel, surpassing all other causes of death in every year tracked except the five (2004 through 2007 and 2010) most identified with major actions in Iraq. In fact, before 2002, the U.S. military endured only two years (1987, when an Iraqi jet attacked the U.S.S. Stark , and 1991, during Operation Desert Storm) of combat-related casualties in excess of one servicemember per 100,000. Accident-related deaths, on the other hand, while in decline since 1980 (reaching a three-decade low of 25.2 per 100,000 servicemembers in 2010), still account for the lion's share of all military deaths, and have been responsible for an average of 40.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year since 1980.       Had the United States not mired itself in first "liberating" and then policing of Iraq, the average number of combat fatalities would be far lower, as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan didn't surpass deaths in Iraq until 2009. Even though American troops withdrew from Iraq at the end of 2011, total U.S. military deaths in that country are still roughly twice as high as U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan. Despite this uptick in combat deaths, illness (which claimed 14.3 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) and suicide (which claimed 11.8 servicemembers per 100,000 per year) were still greater scourges of the military than battle, which has been responsible for an average of 9.3 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year from 1980 through 2010. However, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq did push the number of combat-related deaths up significantly, to a rate of 27.7 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010 . This higher fatality rate pushed the overall military death rate up to 93.4 servicemembers per 100,000 per year from 2001 through 2010.  But serving in the military isn't even the most dangerous job in America, even if we focus only on the period after the opening of these two combat theaters. Would you like to know what's more dangerous than military service?   Source: Kyle Rush via Flickr.   Logging: 127.8 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 You're a lumberjack, but you might not be OK, because you work in the most dangerous occupation in America, with 45 more deaths per 100,000 workers than the armed forces. In the three decades we've examined, the military never suffered more deaths per 100,000 personnel than the logging industry suffered in 2012. The military's worst year was 2007, when combat deaths hit modern highs of 52.7 per 100,000 servicemembers and total military deaths reached 121.4 per 100,000 servicemembers.  Fishing: 117.0 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2012 The high death rate of fishermen (or fisherfolk, if you prefer something gender-neutral) might not be so much of a surprise, as this is a profession that has a reality show -- Deadliest Catch -- that tells you it's dangerous right in the title! The military's annual death rate only surpassed that of the fishing industry in 2007, and its three-decade average death rate is nearly 35 personnel per 100,000 lower than it is for fishing.       If you're looking for job security and personal safety, you'd actually be better off joining the military than working as a lumberjack or in the fishing industry. Military service will -- unless you do something horrendously improper -- guarantee at least four years of pay, which should generally be at least $20,000 per year (pay grade E-3, which is a private first class in the Army or a seaman in the Navy, pays $21,700 per year), much of which will be take-home because of general military policy of providing room and board to servicemembers. Loggers, on the other hand, make a median salary of only $33,600 per year, nearly identical to the $33,400 median salary in the fishing industry. The logging industry is expected to see a 9% decline in its employment numbers by 2022, and the fishing industry is expected to lose 5% of its workforce during the same time frame.  Nearly any military servicemember with career ambitions is likely to earn more than the median logging or fishing salary after several years, and some may even start off earning more -- the lowest pay grade for the officer corps (a second lieutenant in the Army or an ensign in the navy) equates to an annual salary of $34,900.  Combat isn't that common If you're still concerned about the risk of death in combat, keep in mind that the military won't have its boots on the ground in hostile countries all the time -- at least not as long as voters have a say in the matter and choose to elect less hawkish politicians. Even so, there were still several other jobs more likely to kill you than combat in the military during this period of global police action:  Sources: Defense Casualty Analysis System and U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. *Note: military casualty rates are from 2001 through 2010 and pay grade used is E-4. Other occupational casualty rates and median salaries used from BLS data and are current through 2012.  The military certainly isn't the safest place to earn a living, but it's hardly the death trap many concerned parents and nervous would-be enlistees might think. In fact, analysis performed by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center found that death rates were significantly lower in the Navy (60.9 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) and in the Air Force (47.4 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year) from 1990 through 2011 than for the military as a whole -- Marines, at 103.8 deaths per 100,000 servicemembers per year, are taxed harder than any other military branch, but even this heightened death rate doesn't surpass that suffered by logging or fishing workers.       No one should join the military expecting it to be a cushy cakewalk, but at the same time, it's worth keeping in mind that there are deadlier jobs with less job security than military service. There are plenty of other considerations as well. Military life can still be very dangerous, even if it's not deadly, and these casualty figures don't account for grievous but survivable wounds that can have lifelong impacts on a servicemember's life. However, barring another major conflict -- and since it took about 30 years for Americans to get over Vietnam before committing to another long-term fight in Iraq, it seems unlikely that the military will be plunged into a new quagmire any time soon -- we should probably expect military casualty rates to keep falling in the coming years.     Add Alex Planes on Google+ , or follow him on Twitter, @TMFBiggles , for more insight into markets, history, and technology.  Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Alex Planes  ( TMFBiggles )     Alex Planes specializes in the deep analysis of tech, energy, and retail companies, with a particular focus on the ways new or proposed technologies can (and will) shape the future. He is also a dedicated student of financial and business history, often drawing on major events from the past to help readers better understand what's happening today and what might happen tomorrow. Connect with Alex on LinkedIn or Twitter for more news and insight:      Follow @TMFBiggles          Article Info     Mar 15, 2014 at 12:25PM   Markets               Read More     5 Years From Now You'll Wish You Grabbed These Stocks    How the Dow's Top Dividend-Paying Stocks Have Fared in 2016    A Look at President Trump's Stock Portfolio    What Investors Missed in the Stock Market Last Week    The Top Tech ETF of the Week                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        Dying for a Paycheck: These Jobs Are More Dangerous Than Military Service @themotleyfool #stocks                                          Log In  ·  Sign Up         Search Entire Site Search Forum Advanced Forum Search Expand for more options.      + Discuss & Interact Forum, Reviews & More        Forum  Forum Home  University Forums A-Z    Top Forums  College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League    Featured Discussions           + Find a College Search For Your Best Fit        College Search Tool   Find the best school—for you.  Use this tool to search by categories such as major and location. You can then use filters to fine tune your results.  Start Searching     Find matching schools based on...  How Do I Start Choosing a College?  Before you ask which colleges to apply to, please consider the following.  Mistakes College Process Rookies Make  Majors and College Search  Your College Major: What to Choose?  Campus Visit Tips When Tours Won’t Fit    Recent Campus Reviews          + Read &
            Learn College Articles & Advice        Articles & Blogs  Browse All Articles  Expert Blogs   Admit This Expert opinions on the college admissions process!    Ask the Dean Read answers to questions about the college admissions process, financial aid, and college search by College Confidential’s resident expert!       Article Categories  College Search  Preparing for College  College Admissions  Paying for College  Campus Life  Majors & Careers  Graduate School  Studying in the U.S.    Popular Tags:       The Latest          + Free
            Resources Tools for Students & Parents        Scholarship Search  Search from over 3 million scholarships worth more than $13 billion.  Find Money    College Search Tool    Start Searching    Online Calculators  Academic Index Calculator  We'll help you estimate your AI, which is used by some schools to summarize the academic
                                accomplishments of applicants.  Financial Aid Calculator  College affordability is important for just about everyone these days, and it's handy to
                                get an idea of how much aid you might be eligible for.    More Good Stuff  25 Tips from the Dean eBook  Recommended Books  College Rankings                 Welcome to College Confidential!  The leading college-bound community on the web    Sign Up For Free   Join for FREE ,
            and start talking with other members, weighing in on community discussions,
            and more.  Also, by registering and logging in you'll see fewer ads and pesky
            welcome messages (like this one!)    As a CC member, you can:   Reply to threads, and start your own.  Post reviews of your campus visits.  Find hundreds of pages of informative articles.  Search from over 3 million scholarships.           Forum Home  Latest Posts  Activity  Unanswered Best Of...     Find A College   College Search  CampusVibe     Top Forums   College Search & Selection  College Admissions  What Are My Chances?  Financial Aid & Scholarships  SAT and ACT Tests & Test Preparation  Parents Forum  Colleges and Universities  Ivy League          Featured Threads    Are Waiting Lists Out of Control?  — Dave_Berry    4 Ways to Increase Odds of Winning College Scholarships  — Dave_Berry    Low-Income, First-Generation Students Have—Finally—Established a Beachhead at Ivy League School  — Dave_Berry    Princeton, Others Aim to Accept More Low-Income Students  — Dave_Berry              Home  /   College Discussion  /  College Confidential Cafe    We are excited to announce a new role on College Confidential: The Forum Champion! Read all about it and apply now .  New Discussion I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008    edited January 2008   in College Confidential Cafe      I really want to enlist in the national guard. But at the same time I don't want to fight in Iraq and get killed.  Even if I don't fight...is there a possibility I will die? Please Help!  Post edited by ishkabob on January 2008 0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook       « 1 2 3 »      Go  Replies to: I want to enlist in the National Guard...but I don't want to die       #1     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       bum 10 char  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #2     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       your chance of dying in the guard is not much higher than your chance of dying at home. your chance of getting injured is pretty high if you do enter combat, but dying in combat is rare.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #3     GoldShadow    Registered User  Posts: 6,160  Senior Member      January 2008       CC is probably not the right place to ask this question.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #4     tomatoking    Registered User  Posts: 847  Member      January 2008       don't worry.there are re-spawn points.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #5     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       whats a re-spawn point?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #6     snoopyiscool    Registered User  Posts: 18,082  Senior Member      January 2008       If you go to Iraq there is always a possibility to get killed. If you don't want a chance of going to Iraq that isn't going to happen.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #7     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       And -- how do you feel about being expected to kill other people? If you're OK with killing enemy soldiors, how'd you feel about accidentally killing civilians including children?  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #8     krazykool    Registered User  Posts: 244  Junior Member      January 2008       but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime? and of course there is the certainty that we will all die at some point.  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #9     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       well, i don't want to kill anyone....I don't want to be on the front line  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #10     runforfun529    Registered User  Posts: 2,135  Member      January 2008       You don't have to go into the infantry in order to join the national guard.   www.1-800-GO-GUARD.com | MOS LIST   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #11     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       "but there's a large possibility of being killed anywhere. disease? car accidents? violent crime?"  Actually, there's not a large possibility of being killed anywhere when you are a relatively young U.S. citizen. Most people in the U.S. live until their 70s.  Certainly, going into combat places one at a higher than normal risk of being killed or maimed (and the injuries that people are surviving in this war are horrendous.).  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #12     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       A quick Google yielded this USA Today article from 2004. You could check to find more current info.  "WASHINGTON — In a reversal of trends from past wars, part-time soldiers in the Army National Guard are about one-third more likely to be killed in Iraq than full-time active-duty soldiers serving there, a USA TODAY analysis of Pentagon statistics shows. According to figures furnished by the military branches, the active Army has sent about 250,000 soldiers to Iraq, and 622 have been killed. That works out to one death for every 402 soldiers who have deployed. About 37,000 Army Guard soldiers have been sent to Iraq since the war began and 140 have died there — one fatality for every 264 soldiers who have served, or about a 35% higher death rate.  There are several reasons for the greater death rates among so-called part-time soldiers, who generally drill one weekend a month and two weeks during the summer when there's no war. The Pentagon has called up thousands of part-time troops for tours of a year or more in Iraq. Some of the most dangerous missions, including driving convoys and guarding bases and other facilities, frequently are assigned to Guard and reserve troops. Iraqi insurgents have attacked convoys with roadside bombs and rocket-propelled grenades, and a Tennessee Guardsman publicly complained to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld last week about the lack of armor on some vehicles...."   USATODAY.com - Rate of Guard deaths higher   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #13     Northstarmom    Registered User  Posts: 24,853  Senior Member      January 2008       AP story from 2005: "WASHINGTON — The National Guard and Reserves are suffering a strikingly higher share of U.S. casualties in Iraq, their portion of American military deaths nearly doubling since last year.  Reservists have accounted for one-quarter of all U.S. deaths since the Iraq war began, but the proportion has grown over time. It was 10 percent for the five weeks it took to topple Baghdad in the spring of 2003, and 20 percent for 2004 as a whole.  The trend accelerated this year. For the first nine months of 2005 reservists accounted for 36 percent of U.S. deaths, and for August and September it was 56 percent, according to Pentagon figures.  The Army National Guard, Army Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve accounted for more than half of all U.S. deaths in August and in September — the first time that has happened in consecutive months. The only other month in which it even approached 50 percent was June 2004..."   The Seattle Times: Nation & World: Reservist deaths high in Iraq   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #14     ishkabob    Registered User  Posts: 393  Member      January 2008       this sucks....i want to help me country but if I do.....I know I'll probably die...thats my luck!  0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook          #15     kjcastillo1990    Registered User  Posts: 422  Member      January 2008       According to my sis, there's a higher chance of you getting shot in Washington DC alone than getting killed in Iraq as a National Guardsman. My sister is in the National Guard, and she was deployed last month. She is now in Baghdad, and her role there is being military police (that is, patrolling areas, guarding prisons, other guarding posts, etc).  If you are not in the field, the one of the only risks you have is being injured by an I.E.D (improvised explosive device) All those articles in the previous posts were from 2-3 years ago--I'm pretty sure the death rates in Iraq have gone down by a lot now.  Joining the National Guard is a really big responsibility, but you also gain a lot of respect in doing so. The army itself will train you to become a soldier as well as a leader. It's the best way to help your country....that is, if you're up to it. ;)   0   ·  Reply   ·  Share on Facebook        « 1 2 3 »      Go    This discussion has been closed.                 Helpful Links    Home  College Search  Admissions  Paying For College  College Rankings  Campus Life    Online Degrees  College Topics  Ask The Dean  Discussion  About  Contact    Press  Privacy  Rules  Terms of Service  Site Map      About College Confidential  Welcome to the leading college-bound community on the Web!  Here you'll find hundreds of pages of articles about choosing a college, getting into the college you want, how to pay for it, and much more. You'll also find the Web's busiest discussion community related to college admissions, and our CampusVibe section!         ©2001-2018 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WORLDWIDE                                          News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                                               News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                  News  Tech  Health  Planet Earth  Strange News  Animals  History  Culture  Space.com                                             Live Science Planet Earth  The Odds of Dying  By Laura Geggel, Senior Writer | February 9, 2016 06:56am ET                            MORE           Cataclysmic storms took the lives of about 60 people and lightning killed 25 people in the United States in 2014.  Credit: Solarseven | Shutterstock.com     Everyone dies of something, but after slogging through the daily news, you'd think most people die from terrorism, shark attacks and gas explosions. But are these tragedies — not to mention deaths from lightning strikes, plane crashes and tsunamis — actually top killers in the United States?  Not really.  Even combined, these incidents killed far fewer people than the most deadly illness — heart disease, which took the lives of more than 614,000 people in the United States in 2014, accounting for about 23 percent of all deaths in the country, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  To separate the deaths that make headlines from those that are far more common, Live Science investigated the odds of dying from various causes. We used the CDC's Wonder database for 2014 data and other sources, and found that you're more likely to die of Alzheimer's disease (about 29 deaths per 100,000 people in the U.S.) than you are from contact with a venomous snake or lizard (there were just five such deaths in 2014).  In total, about 2.6 million people died in the United States in 2014, according to the CDC. To put this number into perspective, that means about 824 people died for every 100,000 people in the country. (Keep this statistic in mind, as we'll be giving death rates per 100,000 people throughout this article.) Worldwide, an estimated 56 million people died in 2012, the most recent year for which numbers on worldwide deaths are available from the World Health Organization (WHO).  Although Hollywood advised us (in no fewer than five of its blockbusters) to "Die Hard," there are a ton of ways to die. Here's a look at how many people die from common, unexpected and even theoretical events, and the science behind those numbers. [ 9 Healthy Habits You Can Do in 1 Minute (Or Less) ]   Ways to Die    Top 2 Deadly Diseases   Top Killers   Respiratory Diseases & Accidents   More Diseases   Drug Overdoses   Animal Attacks   Transportation   Terrorism & Homicides   Other Scary Ways to Die   Natural Disasters       Top 2 Deadly Diseases    In decades past, infectious diseases were the No. 1 killer, "but with the advent of antibiotics and treatment of infectious diseases, people started to live longer," said Dr. Maan Fares, a staff cardiologist at Cleveland Clinic. With many infections now conquered, people's lifestyle choices — including whether they smoke, how they eat and how much they exercise — are catching up with them, and causing conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol , Fares told Live Science.  So, it may come as no surprise that the top two killers — heart disease and cancer — account for roughly half of all deaths in the United States. About 193 per 100,000 people died from cardiovascular problems, such as heart attacks, in the United States in 2014. Worldwide, cardiovascular diseases killed 17.5 million people, accounting for 3 of every 10 deaths in 2012, the WHO reported.  People's risk of heart disease rises with smoking, sedentary lifestyles and poor sleep . To lower your risk of dying of heart disease, you can exercise, eat colorful fruits and vegetables (and fiber), and drink less alcohol.       Chart of the top causes of death in the U.S. for 2014.  Credit: by Karl Tate, Infographics artist    Cancer placed second, with about 186 deaths per 100,000 people in the United States. Some cancers took more lives than others. The top killers, lung and bronchial cancers, killed about 155,000 people in 2014, or about 49 deaths per 100,000 people. Colon and rectal cancers claimed about 16 lives per 100,000 people, and breast cancer took about 13 lives per 100,000 people. Pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer followed, with about 12.7 and 9 deaths per 100,000 people, respectively. [ 7 Cancers You Can Ward Off with Exercise ]  "We still don't know what causes cancer, but we do realize that each cancer is different, and the risk factors associated with each is very different," said Dr. Rupal O'Quinn, a cardio-oncologist at the University of Pennsylvania. People with cancer are living longer and sometimes even beating their diagnosis, largely thanks to cancer screenings, organ transplants and targeted therapies (newer drugs that aim to specifically kill cancer cells, rather than the broader approach of chemotherapy drugs), O'Quinn said.  There were 3 million cancer survivors in the country in 1971, and more than 12 million in 2012, according to a study in the International Journal of Medical Sciences . But there is still much to be learned about cancer, she said. Screening cannot look for every type of cancer, such as ovarian cancer, which may explain why some cancers claim more lives than others, O'Quinn said.  A person's cancer risk may also vary according to region. For instance, esophageal cancer kills about 4 per 100,000 people a year in the United States, but about 140 per 100,000 people in Central Asian countries such as Pakistan, according to a 2004 study in the journal Annals of Oncology .  The reason? Researchers suspect that the higher rates of esophageal cancer in Central Asia are linked to the use of chewing tobacco — a habit common in Pakistan — as well as the "drinking of very hot beverages such as tea and Kawa [or kahwa ], which are again, extremely common in Pakistan," the researchers wrote in the study. (Drinking scalding-hot beverages is linked to an increased risk of esophageal cancer, a 2009 study in northern Iran found.)  People's risk of cancer generally rises the longer they live, but also with smoking, using tanning beds and sitting too much . To lower your risk of dying of cancer, you can get recommended screenings, exercise and eat a healthy diet.      Top Killers  The first eight diseases listed in the table below were the top eight killers in the United States in 2014, whereas the rest are shown for comparison purposes.      Cause of death  Number of U.S. deaths  Rate of deaths     1. Cardiovascular disease   614,348   193 per 100,000     2. Cancer   591,699   186 per 100,000     3. Chronic lower respiratory disease   147,101   46 per 100,000     4. Accidents   136,053   43 per 100,000     5. Strokes   133,103   42 per 100,000     6. Alzheimer's disease   93,541   29 per 100,000     7. Diabetes   76,488   24 per 100,000     8. Influenza and pneumonia   55,227   17 per 100,000    Drug overdoses  47,055  15 per 100,000    Kidney disease  48,146  15 per 100,000    Intentional self-harm  42,773  13 per 100,000    Septicemia  38,940  12 per 100,000    Liver disease  38,170  12 per 100,000    Transportation accidents  37,195  12 per 100,000    Parkinson's disease  26,150  8 per 100,000    Firearm assault  10,945  3 per 100,000    HIV  6,721  2 per 100,000    Pedestrian deaths  6,258  2 per 100,000         Respiratory Diseases & Accidents  In the U.S., after cancer, the next two largest killers are respiratory diseases and accidents. Respiratory diseases such as bronchitis, emphysema and asthma killed about 46 per 100,000 people in 2014, the CDC found. People may lower their respiratory risk by kicking their cigarettes to the curb. Moreover, some evidence suggests that asthma may be prevented in young children if they live with a dog or are exposed to allergens early in life .  Avoiding accidents is a whole other ball game. Accidents include a whole range of unintentional injuries and accounted for about 43 deaths per 100,000 people, or about 5 percent of all deaths in the United States in 2014, the CDC reported. A word to the wise: Remember to take off your headphones if you're walking around town (it can distract you from cars), and don't speed while driving.  The fifth top killer in 2014 was cerebrovascular disease (strokes), which claimed about 42 lives per 100,000 people in the United States.      More Diseases  Other health conditions also took a toll. Influenza and pneumonia (the two conditions are lumped together in CDC statistics) killed about 17 per 100,000 people in the United States, or about 55,000 people in total. Of those, about 23,700 were people age 85 or older, and 186 were infants younger than 1 year old. But many cases of flu can be prevented through vaccination. The 2014 flu shot decreased people's chances of getting the flu by only 19 percent, but the vaccines developed between 2012 and 2013 decreased their chances by 56 percent , Live Science found.  Suicide took the lives of about 42,700 individuals in 2014, meaning that there were about 13 suicides per 100,000 people in the United States that year. It was the 10th leading cause of death in the United States, topping death by assault, which took about 13,000 lives that same year. The number for the suicide hotline is (800) 273-8255.       A 3D look at the HIV virus.  Credit: Sebastian Kaulitzki/Shutterstock    On other fronts, modern medicine is helping people manage their maladies. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease killed about 6,700 people in the United States in 2014, or about 2 per 100,000 people. That's substantially fewer deaths than the virus caused in 1999 (the first year listed in CDC Wonder), when HIV took the lives of about 14,800 people, or about 5 per 100,000 people. [ Extending Life: 7 Ways to Live Past 100 ]  Worldwide, about 1.2 million people, including 150,000 children younger than age 15, died of HIV-related causes in 2014, WHO reported . That's about a 57 percent decrease from 1999, when about 2.8 million people worldwide died of the disease, according to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS . The drop is largely due to increased access to a drug regimen called antiretroviral therapy (ART), which keeps the virus at low levels within the body, and fewer people contracting the disease, the WHO said .  Other diseases that plague the world are very uncommon in the United States. For instance, malaria killed eight people in the U.S. in 2014 but caused 584,000 deaths worldwide, 90 percent of them in Africa, according to the WHO . Moreover, tuberculosis killed 493 people in the United States, or 0.2 per 100,000 people in 2014. Worldwide, the respiratory disease killed 1.5 million people, the WHO found .      Drug Overdoses  A total of 47,055 people died of drug overdoses in the United States in 2014, or 14.7 deaths per 100,000 people. The number is alarming, as it represents an increase of 6.5 percent over the previous year, the CDC said.  "More persons died from drug overdoses in the United States in 2014 than during any previous year on record," the CDC wrote in a Jan. 1 report . "In 2014, there were approximately one and a half times more drug overdose deaths in the United States than deaths from motor vehicle crashes." Deaths from opioids (including opioid pain relievers and heroin) came in at 9 deaths per 100,000 people in 2014 — a 14 percent increase from 2013. In fact, 61 percent of drug overdose deaths included some type of opioid, the CDC said.      Animal Attacks       Beware the mosquito.  Credit: James Gathany. Provided by CDC  Paul I. Howell, MPH; Prof. Frank Hadley Collins    Many people automatically think of sharks when they imagine deadly animals, but they're far from a leading cause of death. CDC Wonder doesn't always mention the exact animal, but it noted that nobody in the U.S. died from " contact with a marine animal " such as a whale or a shark in 2014 (although three people died in this category in 2013).  However, in 2014, six people died after being bitten or stung by a nonvenomous insect, 36 people died after being bitten or mauled by a dog and 83 died after being struck by a mammal (not including dogs), such as a cow or a horse. But rest assured — no one in the U.S. reportedly died from rat bites or crocodile or alligator attacks in 2014. Furthermore, there were no deaths from "contact with plant thorns and spines and sharp leaves," though it's good to know that's a category the CDC can use just in case. [ In Photos: The 10 Deadliest Animals ]  Worldwide, the deadliest animal (after the mosquito, which kills people with the illness-causing pathogens it carries) is perhaps the snake. Snakebites kill 20,000 people globally each year, according to a 2008 study published in the journal PLOS Medicine .      Transportation  In the United States, people are much more likely to die while walking on a roadway than from tuberculosis or getting mauled by an animal, the odds show. In the United States, there were about 37,000 deaths from "transport accidents" (including car, train, motorcycle and boat accidents). This number includes 6,200 pedestrians who died in transportation collisions — such as crashes with cars, trucks, bikes and trains — meaning that 2 pedestrians died per 100,000 people.  In fact, more pedestrians died in the United States than motorcyclists (about 4,100 deaths) and bicyclists (about 900 deaths) combined, according to CDC Wonder. But death rates from vehicle accidents are still the highest: More than 7,800 people died in a car, pickup truck, van, heavy transport vehicle (such as a semitruck) or bus accident in 2014. That's 2.5 per 100,000 people, according to CDC Wonder.  Of the deaths due to traffic accidents in the U.S., 31 percent were due to alcohol, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Of the motor-vehicle-related deaths, speeding accounted for 28 percent, distracted driving for 10 percent and drowsy drivers for almost 3 percent, the NHTSA said.      Terrorism & Homicides  In 2014, there were more than 32,700 deaths related to terrorism worldwide, according to the U.S. Department of State . (The department has yet to post data from 2015, and undoubtedly, these numbers have increased due to the conflicts in Syria and elsewhere.)  More than 6,200 of the 32,700 people (19 percent) killed were perpetrators. These people died after committing suicide, by accident or from security forces or victims responding to the attacks, the department reported. The terrorist attacks happened in 95 countries, but 78 percent of all terrorism fatalities took place in Iraq, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Syria, the department said.  Large attacks increased from 2013 to 2014. In 2013, there were two attacks that killed more than 100 people, but in 2014, there were 20 attacks of this size. Moreover, the death count increased by 81 percent in 2014 compared to in 2013, largely because of terrorist activities in Iraq, Afghanistan and Nigeria, the department reported.  Of course, it's hard to define terrorism, but the department makes an attempt. Terrorism is a violent act "aimed at attaining a political, economic, religious or social goal" that seeks to "coerce, intimidate or convey some other message to a larger audience," according to the report. Terrorism also breaks international humanitarian law by targeting "noncombatants," or innocent people.  In the United States, about another 10,900 people died from an assault by a handgun, rifle, shotgun, larger firearm or unspecified firearm discharge in 2014, accounting for 3.4 deaths per 100,00 people, the CDC reported. (In this case, " firearm assaults " do not include suicides, unintentional shootings, shootings of undetermined intent, justifiable shootings, war or terrorism.)      Other Scary Ways to Die  For comparison, the table below lists the deaths caused by some of the more sensationalized means, also in 2014. These figures tend to vary significantly from year to year, and in the case of some — like deaths from venomous spiders — can be just a handful, or zero. They tend to be so low that when the rate of deaths per 100,000 people is calculated, the result is insignificantly tiny.      Cause of Death  Number of U.S. deaths in 2014 (total deaths = 2.6 million)    Dengue fever  2    Venomous snakes or lizards  5    Nonvenomous insects  6    Venomous spiders  7    Malaria  8    Nonpowered aircraft (Ex: hot air balloons, hang gliders)  13    Lightning  25    Struck or bitten by dog  36    Salmonella infection  45    Cataclysmic storm  61    Mauled by a mammal (not including dogs)  83    Avalanche, landslide or other Earth movement  85    Contact with venomous plants or animals (Ex: bees, scorpions)  91    Explosions (including gas)  116         Natural Disasters  Preparedness can make a world of difference when natural disasters strike. Take tsunamis, for instance. Since 2000 B.C., there have been about 2,400 tsunamis that have killed at least 500,000 people, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). But the 2004 Sumatra and 2011 Tohoku (Fukushima) tsunamis were the deadliest waves in recent history. [ Fukushima Radiation Leak: 5 Things You Should Know ]  About 300,000 people were in danger during each of these disasters. But about 230,000 people died in the Sumatra tsunami, whereas an estimated 16,000 died in Japan , according to Vasily Titov, an oceanographer at the NOAA Center for Tsunami Research in Seattle. The difference came down to tsunami education programs and warning systems in Japan, Titov said. "About the same amount of people were exposed for both events, but 10 percent of them died in Japan and about 90 percent were killed in Sumatra ," Titov told Live Science.  Fewer people died in Japan because "everyone is very much in tune with the tsunami hazard," and hundreds of thousands of people evacuated to shelters during and after the catastrophe, he said.       The 2011 tsunami in Tohoku, Japan, killed about 16,000 people and wiped out entire communities. With more people living in coastal regions every year, the risk of tsunami deaths only goes up.  Credit: Dylan McCord. U.S. Navy    Tsunami readiness may help save lives in the future. Nowadays, people who live on the coastlines of large bodies of water, especially the Pacific and Indian oceans, are at risk, and these populations are only growing. In 2000, about 625.2 million people worldwide lived in low-elevation coastal zones, according to a 2015 study published in the journal PLOS ONE . The researchers estimated that between 879 million and 949 million people will live in these low-elevation areas by 2030, making tsunami education and warning systems paramount.  But preparedness appears to be paying off. In 2010, an 8.8-magnitude earthquake in Chile triggered a tsunami, and together, the earthquake and tsunami killed about 500 people. The tsunami was responsible for fewer than 200 of the deaths, Titov said. In 2015, an 8.3-magnitude earthquake in Chile also triggered a tsunami, but the country immediately evacuated about 1 million people away from the coastline, and only five people died in the catastrophe, Titov said.  To survive a tsunami, create a safety kit and plan, so you and your family know where to meet and how to evacuate to higher ground, Ready.gov advises. Also — needless to say — stay away from the beach.  Unlike for tsunamis, there is no warning system for earthquakes. But few large tremblors have struck populated areas of the United States in recent years. A total of eight people died from earthquakes from 1999 to 2014 in the United States, the CDC reported. Worldwide, earthquakes have killed tens of thousands of people. An estimated 629 people died from earthquakes in 2012; about 22,000 in 2011; and 320,120 in 2010, largely from the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in Haiti, according to the U.S. Geological Survey .  Avalanches and landslides also caused havoc. A total of 549 people died in these natural disasters from 1999 to 2014 in the United States. The deadliest year was 2014, with 85 deaths, including 43 from the catastrophic landslide in Oso , Washington.  Earth could also experience extraterrestrial threats from asteroids. After all, an asteroid is thought to have wiped out 75 percent of all species (including the dinosaurs) about 65 million years ago, at the end of the Cretaceous period . But no human death ever recorded was due to an asteroid, so it's hard to give the odds of dying from one of these space rocks, said Lindley Johnson, NASA's planetary defense officer. (A meteorite was thought to have killed a man in southern India on Feb. 6, 2016, but NASA has since reported the event was more consistent with a land-based explosion than a space rock.) [ When Space Attacks: The 6 Craziest Meteor Impacts ]  "It is so rare, there has never been a scientifically confirmed report of someone being killed by a meteorite impact in recorded history," NASA's Planetary Defense Officer Lindley Johnson told Live Science in February. "There have been reports of injuries, but even those were extremely rare before the Chelyabinsk event three years ago."  Lightning is far more deadly, with 25 people getting zapped by a bolt in the United States in 2014. Cataclysmic storms (such as hurricanes, tornadoes, dust storms and tidal waves — which are shallow water waves) are even worse, killing 61 people in the country in 2014.  So take precautions, caring for your health and your safety, lest you become a statistic. But don't stress about the freak events — odds are, you'll die of something much more mundane.   Editor's Note : This story was first published in 2005 and has been updated with the most recent data. Live Science will continue to update the odds of dying as new numbers are released.   Follow Laura Geggel on Twitter @LauraGeggel . Follow Live Science @livescience , Facebook & Google+ . Original article on Live Science .       You'd Also Like         Countries with the Deadliest Roads Revealed  LiveScience         100 Years of Infectious Disease Deaths in US: Study Shows What's Changed  LiveScience         Glen Campbell's Death: How Does Alzheimer's Kill?  LiveScience         America's No. 1 Killer Is Changing  LiveScience              Author Bio     Laura Geggel, Senior Writer    As a senior writer for Live Science, Laura Geggel covers general science, including the environment and amazing animals. She has written for The New York Times, Scholastic, Popular Science and Spectrum, a site covering autism research. Laura grew up in Seattle and studied English literature and psychology at Washington University in St. Louis before completing her graduate degree in science writing at NYU. When not writing, you'll find Laura playing Ultimate Frisbee. Follow Laura on Google+ .    Laura Geggel, Senior Writer on                Science Newsletter: Subscribe    Submit      Follow Us                 Most Popular      This Pouched Rat Can Sniff Out Tuberculosis in Kids       SpaceX Not to Blame for Loss of Top-Secret Spy Satellite       Weird Neutrinos Can't Quite Explain Matter's Huge Riddle Yet       Restroom Hand Dryers Are Blowing Bacteria Everywhere       What Happens If You Get Injected with Embalming Fluid?                         Home About Us    Company   Company Info  About Us  Contact Us  Advertise with Us  Using Our Content  Licensing & Reprints  Terms of Use  Copyright Policy  Privacy Policy     Network   Top Ten Reviews  Tom's Guide  Laptop Mag  Tom's Hardware  Business News Daily  Tom's IT Pro  Space.com  Live Science  Active Junky  ShopSavvy  AnandTech  Dignifyed       FOLLOW US            Subscribe    SUBMIT        Copyright © All Rights Reserved.                  