SUBSCRIBE NOW to get home delivery News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Icon Humidity Precip. Winds Open settings Settings Enter City Name Cancel Set Close settings Full Forecast Crosswords Video Subscribe Newsletters Stocks Apps Classifieds Best-Selling Books Corrections Interactives News tips Photo galleries Newsstand Scores Podcasts Investigations Washington Policing the USA Moonlighting VRtually There Job Network More News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Crosswords Video Subscribe Newsletters Stocks Apps Classifieds Best-Selling Books Corrections Interactives News tips Photo galleries Newsstand Scores Podcasts Investigations Washington Policing the USA Moonlighting VRtually There Job Network Search Firefly Hi Already a subscriber? Sign In Subscribe to USA TODAY Subscribe Now Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login? Activate your digital access. Manage your account settings. My Account Support Log Out Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Email Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Predicting which states will be next to legalize marijuana requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions. Post to Facebook Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Predicting which states will be next to legalize marijuana requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions.  Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2ig6lY3 Cancel Send Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 24 Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Samuel Stebbins, Grant Suneson and John Harrington, 24/7 Wall Street Published 9:40 a.m. ET Nov. 14, 2017 | Updated 11:51 a.m. ET Jan. 5, 2018 CLOSE There's more support than ever for marijuana legalization and that includes Republicans. Time Cannabis buds next to a judge's gavel. (Photo: Getty Images) CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 24 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Support for legalizing marijuana for recreational use has been growing in recent years in the United States. However, the momentum for greater recreational use of the drug may have been slowed by the decision Thursday by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions to rescind several Obama-era orders that discouraged enforcement of federal marijuana laws in states that had legalized the substance. In a memo sent to U.S. attorneys, Sessions said “prosecutors should follow the well-established principles that govern all federal prosecutions. These principles require federal prosecutors deciding which cases to prosecute to weigh all relevant considerations of the crime, the deterrent effect of criminal prosecution, and the cumulative impact of particular crimes on the community.” Sessions action potentially allows the federal government to crack down on the burgeoning pot industry. Sessions, who considers marijuana a dangerous substance, said prosecutors should use their discretion — factoring in the Justice Department’s limited resources, the seriousness of the crime, and the deterrent effect that they could impose — in considering if charges were appropriate. The decision by the attorney general comes at a time when a record high 64% of Americans support legalizing marijuana for recreational use, according to a 2017 Gallup Poll. Support for legalization is rooted in changing perceptions of the drug’s potential harm, as well as the prospect of hundreds of millions of dollars in marijuana sales and excise tax revenue for state governments. Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana  Fullscreen Post to Facebook Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. A record high 64% of Americans support legalizing marijuana for recreational use, according to a 2017 Gallup Poll. Support for legalization is rooted in changing perceptions of the drug's potential harm, as well as the prospect of hundreds of millions of dollars in marijuana sales and excise tax revenue for state governments. Ed Andrieski, AP Fullscreen 1. Arizona
Possession decriminalized: No
Amount decriminalized: N/A
Max. fine for less than 2 lbs.: $150,000
Annual adult usage: 12.7% (19th highest) Matt York, AP Fullscreen 2. Arkansas
Possession decriminalized: No
Amount decriminalized: N/A
Max. fine for less than 4 oz.: $2,500
Annual adult usage: 11.3% (16th lowest) Danny Johnston, AP Fullscreen 3. Connecticut
Possession decriminalized: Yes
Amount decriminalized: Less than 1/2 oz
Max. fine for less than 1/2 oz: $150
Annual adult usage: 15.4% (10th highest) AP Fullscreen 4. DelawarePossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 1 oz. or lessMax. fine for 1 oz. or less: $100Annual adult usage: 12.7% (20th highest) Dee Marvin, AP Fullscreen 5. FloridaPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for 20 g. or less: $1,000Annual adult usage: 12.1% (24th lowest) Phil Sears, AP Fullscreen 6. IllinoisPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 10 g. or lessMax. fine for 10 g. or less: $200Annual adult usage: 12.3% (24th highest) Seth Perlman, AP Fullscreen 7. MarylandPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: Less than 10 g.Max. fine for less than 10 g.: $100Annual adult usage: 14.8% (15th highest) Patrick Semansky, AP Fullscreen 8. MichiganPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for any amount: $2,000Annual adult usage: 15.0% (13th highest) Carlos Osorio, AP Fullscreen 9. MinnesotaPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 42.5 g. or lessMax. fine for 42.5 g. or less: $200 Jim Mone, AP Fullscreen 10. MontanaPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for 60 g, or less: $500Annual adult usage: 15.1% (11th highest) Lisa Kunkel, AP Fullscreen 11. New HampshirePossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 3/4 oz. or lessMax. fine for 3/4 oz. or less: $100Annual adult usage:Ê17.1% (9th highest) Joel Page, AP Fullscreen 12. New YorkPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 25 g. or lessMax. fine for 25 g. or less: $100Annual adult usage: 15.0% (14th highest) Mike Groll, AP Fullscreen 13. OhioPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: Less than 100 g.Max. fine for less than 100 g.: $150Annual adult usage: 12.0% (21st lowest) Jay LaPrete, AP Fullscreen 14. Rhode Island
Possession decriminalized: Yes
Amount decriminalized: Less than 1 oz.
Max. fine for less than 1 oz.: $150
Annual adult usage: 18.7% (6th highest) Steven Senne, AP Fullscreen 15. VermontPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 1 oz. or lessMax. fine for 1 oz. or less: $200Annual adult usage: 20.6% (3rd highest) Toby Talbot, AP Fullscreen Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries: Replay 1 of 16 2 of 16 3 of 16 4 of 16 5 of 16 6 of 16 7 of 16 8 of 16 9 of 16 10 of 16 11 of 16 12 of 16 13 of 16 14 of 16 15 of 16 16 of 16 Autoplay Show Thumbnails Show Captions Last Slide Next Slide The growing acceptance of marijuana among Americans has also been reflected in the ballot box. Currently, eight states and Washington D.C. have legalized recreational marijuana. Pro-pot initiatives passed in eight of the nine states in which they made it to the ballot in November 2016. Voters in Arkansas, Florida, Montana and North Dakota approved or expanded medical marijuana laws in their states. In Maine, Massachusetts, Nevada and California, voters approved recreational pot. Only Arizona’s push for full legalization failed. All four states that legalized recreational marijuana in 2016 made 24/7 Wall St.’s list of the next states to legalize pot that same year. Despite widespread acceptance of the drug, only about 21% of the U.S. population live in states or districts that have legalized recreational pot. In all likelihood, the share will only grow in the coming years. Though every state to legalize pot so far has done so through ballot initiatives, going forward, states have a variety of options for making pot legal. Predicting which states will be next to legalize requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions. 24/7 Wall St. reviewed marijuana usage rates, existing marijuana laws, and legislative processes in each state to identify the states most likely to legalize pot next. 1. Arizona Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for less than 2 lbs.: $150,000 Annual adult usage: 12.7% (19th highest) In ballot initiative states, citizens can vote directly on proposed laws. As a result, because politicians who may fear political fallout are out of the equation, states that allow ballot initiatives are much more likely to legalize recreational marijuana use than non-ballot initiative states. Arizona voters in November 2016 struck down Proposition 205, which would have allowed adults in the state to possess up to 1 ounce of marijuana and grow and harvest up to six plants, by a 52.2% to 47.8% margin. Despite the defeat for legalization proponents, other ballot initiative states that have struck down similar propositions in the past — like neighboring California — ultimately legalized pot. Currently, state residents with dispensary cards suffering from a range of conditions, including PTSD, severe nausea, and cancer, can legally posses as much as 2.5 ounces of marijuana for medicinal use.  (Photo: GETTY IMAGES) 2. Arkansas Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for less than 4 oz.: $2,500 Annual adult usage: 11.3% (16th lowest) As a ballot initiative state, the likelihood of Arkansas legalizing recreational marijuana use is considerably higher than that of most other states. Voters in the state recently approved Issue 6 by a 53.2% to 46.8% margin, allowing the use of medical marijuana with doctor approval for the first time. The new law may be a sign of progress for proponents of legalization, as voters in the state struck down a similar proposition as recently as 2012. Still, the state has several potential hurdles to clear before full legalization is reality. Many voters in Arkansas may not be open to the idea of legalization, as just an estimated 11.3% of state adults 18 and older have used marijuana in the past year, a smaller share than in most states. Additionally, those caught in possession of any amount without doctor approval can face a misdemeanor, one year in jail, and a $2,500 fine. 3. Connecticut Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 1/2 oz Max. fine for less than 1/2 oz: $150 Annual adult usage: 15.4% (10th highest) As is the case in much of the country, Connecticut residents’ attitudes towards pot have shifted considerably in recent years. Some 39.1% of state adults 26 and older perceived great risk in monthly marijuana use in 2002. The share has since fallen to 28.8% of adults. Additionally, Connecticut’s medical marijuana program, which has been in effect since June 2012, was strengthened in 2016. That year, legislators added several new conditions to the list of those approved for medical marijuana, and the state’s Department of Consumer Protection greenlighted three new dispensaries. Even more recently, Democratic lawmakers in the state included a plan to tax and regulate marijuana in their 2017 budget proposal. Connecticut is one several states to have decriminalized marijuana possession. First time offenders caught with less half an ounce face no more than a $150 fine. For repeat offenders, fines can be as high as $500, but still, possession of a small amount carries no criminal charges. More: These are the 5 worst cities for Black Americans More: Least livable: 50 worst cities to live in More: Most livable: America’s 50 best cities to live in 4. Delaware Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 1 oz. or less Max. fine for 1 oz. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 12.7% (20th highest) Delaware may very well be the next state to legalize recreational marijuana use, and the first in the country to do so without a ballot initiative. State lawmakers have sponsored House Bill 110, which, if passed, would regulate and tax marijuana in a similar way to alcohol. The bill made it past the Revenue and Finance Committee and will be considered by the state legislature in January 2018. Marijuana legalization appears to have the support of voters in the state. A 2016 poll conducted by the University of Delaware found that 61% of state residents support legalization. Changing attitudes have been a long time in the making. In 2002, 41.4% of state residents 26 and older perceived great risk from monthly marijuana use. As of 2014, only 28.9% of state adults see monthly pot use as very risky. 5. Florida Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for 20 g. or less: $1,000 Annual adult usage: 12.1% (24th lowest) So far, every state to have legalized recreational marijuana use did so through a voter proposed ballot initiative. In November 2016, Sunshine State residents voted by a wide 71.3% to 28.7% margin to legalize medical marijuana use. Passage of the law, known as Amendment 2, means that patients suffering from a range of conditions, including Parkinson’s disease, PTSD, and glaucoma, can legally obtain and possess marijuana with a doctor’s approval. Despite the recent constitutional amendment that suggests growing acceptance of marijuana use in Florida, recreational users in the state still face serious legal consequences. Those caught with 20 grams or less of the drug face misdemeanor charges, up to a year in jail, and fines as high as $1,000. Still, as a ballot initiative state, legalization could happen much faster in Florida than in states that do not allow voter-sponsored ballot initiatives. 6. Illinois Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 10 g. or less Max. fine for 10 g. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 12.3% (24th highest) Few states seem as poised to legalize recreational marijuana use as Illinois. State lawmakers are currently considering legislation in Senate Bill 316 and House Bill 2353 that would allow adults of legal drinking age in the state to possess, cultivate, and purchase limited amounts of pot. If these bills pass, marijuana sales could add to state coffers an estimated $566 million in excise tax revenue per year and as much as $133 million in sales tax revenue annually. Currently, possession of certain amounts of marijuana for nonmedical purposes is decriminalized in Illinois. Those caught with 10 grams or less will not face more than a $200 fine. State residents with a range of conditions, including cancer, glaucoma, and Parkinson’s disease, can qualify for a medical cannabis card. Magnets for sale at the store in Nipton, Calif. highlight the town's ownership by cannabis company American Green, while in the background two visitors examine a rendering of the company's plans to expand the town.  (Photo: Trevor Hughes/USA TODAY) 7. Maryland Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 10 g. Max. fine for less than 10 g.: $100 Annual adult usage: 14.8% (15th highest) Support for legalizing marijuana for recreational use appears to be on the rise in Maryland, from 54% of residents in 2014 to 61% in 2016, according to a Washington Post-University of Maryland poll. More importantly, 64% of likely voters support legalizing pot. The state has already taken a more relaxed attitude toward marijuana. Maryland allows medical marijuana use, it decriminalized possession of under 10 grams, and capped the fine for having a small amount at $100. But state legislators are still hesitant to institute full legalization. A recent legalization bill fell short of passing. The state legislature will not meet again until 2018. 8. Michigan Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for any amount: $2,000 Annual adult usage: 15.0% (13th highest) Some proponents of pot legalization in Michigan are working to gather the 252,523 petition signatures necessary to include a proposal — to tax and regulate marijuana like alcohol — on the November 2018 ballot. If enough signatures are gathered, and if voters approve the measure, adults in Michigan will be able to possess up to 2.5 ounces and cultivate as many as 12 marijuana plants. If passed, Michigan would also join the ranks of a growing number of states to have legalized recreational marijuana through ballot initiatives. Voters in Michigan legalized medical marijuana for a range of conditions in 2008, also through a ballot initiative. Currently, Michigan residents without a medical card can face a $2,000 fine and jail time for possessing small amounts of marijuana. 9. Minnesota Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 42.5 g. or less Max. fine for 42.5 g. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 12.6% (21st highest) Since Minnesota does not have ballot initiatives, marijuana legalization may face more of an uphill battle there than in many other states on this list. So some pro-pot lawmakers in the state introduced bills that would have allowed Minnesota voters to decide whether to amend the constitution to include marijuana as a right. That measure failed, but attitudes towards pot are shifting in the Land of 10,000 Lakes. Current Gov. Mark Dayton opposes legalization, even though he is part of the often pot-friendly Democratic party. However, Dayton is not seeking reelection in 2018, and most Democratic gubernatorial candidates announced they support marijuana legalization. CLOSE Studies suggest that marijuana has gotten stronger over the years. Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more. Buzz60 10. Montana Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for 60 g, or less: $500 Annual adult usage: 15.1% (11th highest) Montana has had a long and checkered history with marijuana laws. First approved for medical use in a 2004 ballot initiative, state lawmakers voted to repeal the measure seven years later, only to be blocked by a veto from the governor. Throughout 2011, lawmakers in Montana fought to impose stricter regulations on the state’s marijuana medical program. The following year, Constitutional Initiative 110, which proposed an all out legalization, failed to garner enough signatures to make it to the ballot. A similar initiative failed to make it to the ballot box as recently as 2016. Still, that same year, Montana voters passed the Medical Marijuana Initiative which loosened some restrictions in existing medical marijuana laws. As is the case nationwide, Montana residents seem to become more accepting of marijuana use. An estimated 36.2% of adults 26 and older in the state perceived great risk from monthly marijuana use in 2002. As of 2014, only 26.6% of the same age group saw monthly marijuana use as inherently harmful. 11. New Hampshire Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 3/4 oz. or less Max. fine for 3/4 oz. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 17.1% (9th highest) New Hampshire is catching up with many other states heading towards legalizing marijuana for recreational purposes. The state decriminalized marijuana possession up to three quarters of an ounce in September 2017. Some 17.1% of adults in the state used marijuana in the past year, the ninth-highest share of all states. The relatively high share of pot users could be part of the reason why legalization is so popular in the Granite State. A University of New Hampshire poll found 68% of residents support legalizing marijuana for recreational use. That is more support than any single elected official in the state has. 12. New York Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 25 g. or less Max. fine for 25 g. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 15.0% (14th highest) Much of the hopes for recreational marijuana legalization in New York actually rest with Massachusetts. Advocates believe that New York state officials could be spurred to act if legalization works well in the neighboring state, which will begin selling recreational pot in July 2018. New York already has a medical marijuana program and a significant amount of users overall. The state is home to more than 2.3 million adults who used pot in the past year. Pot smokers caught with the drug in the Empire State have little to fear in the way of legal repercussions. First time offenders caught with 25 grams or less face a $100 fine, while second time offenders are slapped with a $200 fine. 13. Ohio Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 100 g. Max. fine for less than 100 g.: $150 Annual adult usage: 12.0% (21st lowest) Ohio’s attempt to legalize recreational marijuana in 2015 faltered, though the problem may not have been pot itself. Some voters were concerned the ballot initiative would have created an oligopoly, limiting pot profits to just a handful of companies sponsoring the legislation. Even the prominent pro-pot advocacy group Marijuana Policy Project did not endorse the bill. However, since voters can change state law via ballot initiatives, Ohio could be poised for another shot at legalization. Ohio is in the midst of implementing its medical marijuana program. Currently, recreational users in the state caught with any amount less than 100 grams only face a $150 fine and no jail time. 14. Rhode Island Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 1 oz. Max. fine for less than 1 oz.: $150 Annual adult usage: 18.7% (6th highest) Rhode Island lawmakers are working to draft a bill that would legalize marijuana for personal use. They are aiming to introduce the bill in the first legislative session of 2018. If successful, the state could be the first to pass a recreational marijuana law through the state legislature, as all other states that have legalized marijuana use did so through ballot initiatives. The bill had much support in the Rhode Island legislature, with about a third of the House of Representatives co-sponsoring the bill. Some 18.7% of Rhode Island adults used pot in the past year, more than 5 percentage points ahead of the national share of adult pot users. High usage rates can often suggest a more tolerant cultural stance towards pot. CLOSE New numbers reveal a shocking misconception: about one-third of teens surveyed think it's legal to drive under the influence of marijuana. The truth: it's not legal and it's dangerous! USA TODAY 15. Vermont Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 1 oz. or less Max. fine for 1 oz. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 20.6% (3rd highest) Vermont was well on its way to having the first state legislature to pass a law allowing people 21 and over to use marijuana for recreational purposes. It was only one signature away, but Gov. Phil Scott vetoed the bill, saying he wanted to further study the effects pot has on public safety and state tax revenue. Scott said he would be willing to sign a recreational pot bill into law with a few tweaks. It is not a surprise that politicians in Vermont would be on board with marijuana legalization given how popular it is in the state. Some 15% of Vermont adults used marijuana in the past month, and more than 20% used it in the past year. Those figures were both in the top three among states. Findings and methodology Marijuana legalization in any given state will ultimately reflect the will of the majority of its voters. Though just 13.1% of American adults smoked marijuana at least once in the past year, a far larger and growing share sees nothing wrong with marijuana use. Over the decade beginning in 2004, the share of Americans age 26 and up who believe that monthly marijuana use is inherently risky fell from 43% to 29%. To identify the states most likely to legalize recreational marijuana use in the coming years, 24/7 Wall St. reviewed existing marijuana laws and usage rates in every state. Only states where medical marijuana use is legal were considered. For more on how the list was generated, click here. 24/7 Wall Street is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary. Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY. CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 24 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ig6lY3 Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  California Proposition 19 (2010)  Marijuana Dispensaries  Growing Cannabis  Cannabis in the United States of America  Cannabis Legalization  Medical Cannabis  Cannabis What are the chances of marijuana being legalized in the next 10 years? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers   Dennis Park , Moverde & Co Answered Mar 27, 2012 The chances are better now than at any other time in the last 70 years. Growing pressure from within the US and pressure from other countries legalizing medical cannabis. There is also the growing noise more recently from Central American countries who suffer deaths due to this failed drug war while most deaths associated with the drug war in the US is due to DEA/Federal 'busts'. The larger reason as to why it is likely that some form of legalization will occur is due to the changing voting block. Millennials are more inclined to seek their own information than accept the top-down paradigm of information transfer. This makes it more difficult to 'control' information and their Reefer Madness is less effective. As more legitimate (un-government sanctioned) research bodies continue to explore the effects of cannabinoids on the body and how it affects cancer and HIV, it will become unstoppable. Let's not forget that the Federal Government takes the stance of no medical value but they have a Federal Medical Cannabis Program started over a decade ago which had a dozen or so members. Only about 3 are left. One is Irv Rosenfeld. He gets 300 cannabis cigarettes send each month by the Federal Government for medical reasons.  The federal government also has a patent on a cannabinoid for medical reasons, further weakening the case against cannabis. But the main thrust will come from the millennials and the retiring Baby Boomer generation and their votes.  But that will still take the people to make their voices heard by making their choice felt. 4.7k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below What's next for marijuana legalization? As of 2/19/2017? Will medical marijuana be legal on the federal level in the next 10 years? Should marijuana be legalised? After marijuana, what drug might be legalized next in the United States? What are the chances of any states legalizing recreational marijuana before the next election? Ask New Question   Barb Kueber , I've used cannabis as my primary medicine since 1999 Answered Jul 19, 2014 · Author has 565 answers and 577.8k answer views I wouldn't be surprised if it was legalized in Canada in 2015.  Health Canada has made such a cluster with their Medical Marijuana Access Schemes.  Schemes is the right word for them alright.  Anyway, it is so ridiculous and the current revision of the scheme has again been ruled to be unconstitutional so, it really is a total joke and leaves some people allowed to grow and the poorest forced to go without.  They got a lot of licensed users to move to a grower, who has no medicine!!, understand some people are really sick and they may not be willing to break the law and go to a Compassion Club or Dispensary which are 100% illegal,  their employees could face 5 years in jail according to the laws.  Canada had a commission report done 30 years ago, over 1000 pages told of the horrors of alcohol and cigarettes so they buried it of course LeDain report on drugs divides cabinet 635 Views   Sreeram Duraiswamy Answered Mar 30, 2014 Considering the enormous tax returns acheived by the US govenment, there is a probability that it will be leagalized in more states. If you take a closer look, during the alcohol prohibition era (1920-1933) there were people turning millionaires illegally producing, selling and transporting, it was a golden era, as organized crimes recieved a major boost from this act. As and when the govt started legalizing alcohol it came to a balance. It wouldn't be a surprise if it's getting leagalized in other countries too. 741 Views · View Upvoters   Jeffrey Hoffman , Attorney Answered Feb 7, 2013 · Author has 127 answers and 73.1k answer views On Nov 6 2012, Colorado voters approved Amendment 64 by a vote of 55% to 45%, and Washington voters approved Initiative 502 by a vote of 56% to 44%. Those measures, with various restrictions, legalized marijuana and create a regulatory framework for its cultivation and sale within those states. So, with the benefit of hindsight, the chances were 100%. The jury is still out on what the feds are going to do about this. 1k Views · View Upvoters   Camille McCutcheon , The Arizona Dispensary Answered Feb 3, 2012 According to The Arizona Dispensary, http://www.thearizonadispensary.... , in the US we already have 17 states where the use of medical cannabis is legal.  Six additional states are voting on medical marijuana laws in 2012.  Four more states have failed MMJ ballot measures. If all of these states were to legalize medical pot use, we would have over half the states in favor of medical cannabis legislation.  Some advocates like the ASA, http://www.safeaccessnow.org/sec... , think would this would tip the scales in their favor and the federal government would be forced to legalize or at the very least regulate the medical marijuana industry 1.4k Views   Sahand Milaninia Answered Jan 29, 2012 It's already on the ballot to be voted on in November here in Washington State, and gallop pols show well over the majority support it here too. Only issue is that the Feds will most likely silence our voices and shut it down if the vote passes, still though it shows some hope for it being legalized in the future, especially in more liberal places like Washington. 733 Views   Chaz Carlson , Tech Noir Answered Apr 3, 2012 · Author has 69 answers and 99.3k answer views 51% of people want it decriminalized or legalized in the United States, I think we'll at least see a few states go fully legalized and put heavy pressure on the federal government to follow suit. 941 Views Related Questions When will marijuana be legalized in the United States. Will it be years, months? Will marijuana be legal in America? Should marijuana be legalized in the United States? Are marijuana edibles legal? Should marijuana be legalized in the USA? Should marijuana be made legal in India? What state will likely be the next to legalize marijuana? How many more years till India legalizes marijuana? What year will NC Winterville legalize marijuana? Is legal marijuana at risk under Trump? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What's next for marijuana legalization? As of 2/19/2017? Will medical marijuana be legal on the federal level in the next 10 years? Should marijuana be legalised? After marijuana, what drug might be legalized next in the United States? What are the chances of any states legalizing recreational marijuana before the next election? When will marijuana be legalized in the United States. Will it be years, months? Will marijuana be legal in America? Should marijuana be legalized in the United States? Are marijuana edibles legal? Should marijuana be legalized in the USA? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact          POLITICO Magazine    Menu   Our Latest  Search  Email Signup  politico.com     Google Plus   Facebook   Twitter              Search     Close         The Friday Cover  The Friday Cover is POLITICO Magazine's email of the week's best, delivered to your inbox every Friday morning.                Email    Sign Up    By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.                                                   David McNew/Getty Images      Law And Order   Did Jeff Sessions Just Increase the Odds Congress Will Make Marijuana Legal?   The attorney general has created intolerable uncertainty for a growing industry that is now demanding legal protections from Congress. And lawmakers are listening.      By JAMES HIGDON  January 06, 2018              Facebook       Twitter       Google +         Email       Comment       Print             When Jeff Sessions announced Thursday morning he had removed the barrier that had held back federal prosecutors from pursuing marijuana cases in states that had made pot legal, he delivered on something he had all but promised when he was nominated as attorney general. Most of the marijuana world saw it coming, but they freaked out anyway.  A fund of marijuana-based stocks dropped more than 9 percent in value and, as a sign of how mainstream marijuana has become, Sessions’ decision to repeal the Cole memo, an Obama-era protection for states that have legalized marijuana, even affected the stock price of Scotts Miracle-Gro Company, which dropped more than 5 percent . Business leaders in an industry that was worth $7.9 billion in 2017, called Sessions’ action revoking “outrageous” and “economically stupid.” Story Continued Below        Capitol Hill screamed just as loudly. And it wasn’t just the Democratic members of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus. It was Republican senators, too. Cory Gardner of Colorado took the Senate floor to issue an ultimatum to Sessions: “I will be putting a hold on every single nomination from the Department of Justice until Attorney General Jeff Sessions lives up to the commitment he made to me in my pre-confirmation meeting with him. The conversation we had that was specifically about this issue of states’ rights in Colorado. Until he lives up to that commitment, I’ll be holding up all nominations of the Department of Justice,” Gardner said. “The people of Colorado deserve answers. The people of Colorado deserve to be respected.” Gardner is no fringe Republican; he’s the chair of the NRSC.  Even members who had been silent on the issue in the past vowed to squeeze the Department of Justice’s budget. Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat from New Hampshire, reminding reporters she’s the lead Democrat on the Department of Justice funding subcommittee, tweeted: “I’ll work to ensure that resources are devoted to opioid response NOT foolish policy of interfering with legal marijuana production.” Most of the Congressional leadership was silent on this issue, but not House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who issued a blistering statement against Sessions, saying that she would push for an amendment in the new spending bill to protect states that had legalized not just medical marijuana but recreational use too, a move that could make ongoing budget negotiations much more tense.  Thursday may well turn out to be a pivotal moment in the marijuana industry’s evolution as a political force. Nearly 70 percent of Americans believe in some form of legalized marijuana, but does the nascent industry have the sway to rewrite nearly 50 years of federal drug policy? Or will it remain a splintered coalition of investors, libertarians, concerned parents of sick kids, cancer sufferers, and traumatized veterans, who have the numbers but not the concentrated lobbying effort necessary to once and for all remove marijuana from the crosshairs of federal drug enforcement?  “There’s a lot of [legislators] trying to have it both ways who are now going to have to make up their mind,” said Tick Segerblom, the Nevada state senator who is considered the father of the state’s legalization movement. “Are they going to go with what the voters of their state support, or are they going to join Sessions and crack down and try to re-instate prohibition?”  Right now, the answer seems to be the former. Sessions’ antipathy for a drug that has lost much of its stigma among a wide cross section of Americans has only galvanized disparate factions in Congress to protect an industry that is expected to generate $2.3 billion in state tax revenue by 2020.  Senator Pat Leahy of Vermont, who just a few weeks ago declined to comment to POLITICO Magazine about whether he would work to maintain protections for medical marijuana in the 2018 omnibus spending package, tweeted on Thursday, “I'm now fighting to include my amdt in the final omnibus Approps bill so we can protect patients and law-abiding businesses.”  Those law-abiding businesses are now fully engaged in this matter, and they aren’t just going to roll over and let Jeff Sessions shut them down.  “I expect any actions he and the Justice Department take against the industry will be met with significant pushback from states that are benefiting greatly from an economic and quality of life standpoint,” said Jeffrey Zucker, president of Green Lion Partners, a Denver firm that promotes marijuana businesses. “The cannabis industry will continue on regardless of this decision, and in the long run this should only be a roadblock.”  Leslie Bocskor, president of Electrum Partners, an asset-backed finance company invested in the marijuana market, expressed his displeasure with a wry dig at Sessions’ motives: “It is almost as if the rally in publicly traded stocks in the legal cannabis sector was too much for the AG to bear.”  ***   The Cole memo was never intended to be a permanent fix to the problem posed by the conflict between states that chose to legalize marijuana and existing federal prohibitions. Written by Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole in 2013, the memo gave the nation’s 93 U.S. Attorneys broad latitude to exercise prosecutorial discretion in states where marijuana had been legalized. (Mr. Cole, now in private practice, declined a request for comment for this story.) His memo was interpreted as a virtual hands-off rule, allowing medical and recreational marijuana programs to spread across the country at an unprecedented rate. Flimsy though it was, the Cole Memo nevertheless provided a measure of security for dispensary owners, growers and consumers and allowed investors to proceed with some confidence that their money was not going to be seized in a DEA sting.  The best protection that Congress had been able to provide was the Rohrabacher-Farr amendment, which was passed in 2014 attached to an appropriations bill. It barred the DOJ from spending funds to interfere with the implementation of medical marijuana laws. But since then, a total of eight states have now passed full recreational use laws, mostly recently California, whose law took effect January 1. Rohrabacher-Farr (now known as Rohrabacher-Blumenauer, in honor of Democratic Representative Earl Blumenauer of Oregon, who co-sponsored the amendment) expire on January 19 if it is not renewed and does nothing to help recreationally legal states, hence the eagerness of marijuana advocates to shore up the industry’s legal standing with new legislation and Pelosi’s stated desire to bake in those protections in the budget that’s currently being negotiated.  The fact that marijuana has now risen to the height of top-tier budget negotiations is a sign that the pro-marijuana coalition is no longer merely a menagerie of loud-mouth hippies, stoners, and felons, as the pro-pot crowd has been characterized in the past. The community of Americans who now rely on legal medical marijuana, estimated to be 2.6 million people in 2016 , includes a variety of mainstream constituency groups like veterans, senior citizens, cancer survivors, and parents of epileptic children. The American Legion, a conservative veterans organization by any measure, has voted twice in favor of resolutions to expand research and safe access for its members.  “The American Legion has been a leading advocate for the removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act to enable greater research into the medical efficacy of the drug to treat ailments that impact veterans such as PTSD and chronic pain,” Joe Plenzler, Director of Media Relations for The American Legion, told POLITICO Magazine — which means Jeff Sessions just crossed the nation’s largest wartime veterans service organization.  By the end of the day on Thursday, in a conference call of five members of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, lawmakers from four of the eight states that have approved recreational marijuana railed about Sessions’ unconstitutional assault on the rights of their states to decide their own affairs. On that call, California Republican Dana Rohrabacher said that the move by Sessions to strike a blow against marijuana has had the inverse effect of raising the attention from what had previously been a states’ issue but has now become a national priority. “It’s a big plus for our efforts that the federal government is now aware that our constituents have been alerted,” Rohrabacher said. "We can be confident we can win this fight, because this is a freedom issue.”  On the same call, California Democrat Barbara Lee made it clear that she and her constituents were not going to accept Sessions’ move without a fight. “As a person of color, let me just say that the War on Drugs has been a failure… We’ve lost families, we’ve lost a generation. So this affects people of color in a big way, so we’re not going to allow them to turn back the clock. In our district, we’re going to fight this every step of the way,” the Congresswoman said.  Even if Leahy protects medical marijuana programs by reauthorizing the Rohrabacher-Farr amendment in the upcoming omnibus spending bill in the conference committee, the Congressional Cannabis Caucus has less than a year to make those protections permanent. The means to do that is H.R. 1227, the Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act, sponsored by Representative Thomas Garrett, a Republican from Virginia. The bill, now with 15 cosponsors, would remove marijuana from Schedule 1 and eliminate federal penalties for anyone engaged in state-legal marijuana activity. All Congress has to do is pass it.  “We’ve got to act,” Rohrabacher said on the Thursday phone call. “We can’t take it for granted, and now it’s going to be a priority for us to accomplish.”  As of late Friday, POLITICO Magazine could not find a single member of Congress who had issued a statement in support of Sessions’ actions. In the end, this is a self-inflicted pot crisis that could prove to be a critical test of Trump’s ability to maintain his base.  “There’s a lot of old white men who are marijuana users, and the marijuana is keeping them alive,” Segerblom said from his cell phone while driving around Las Vegas. “Trump is going to have fewer to vote for him if he doesn’t keep marijuana legal.”   Share on Facebook  Share on Twitter      James Higdon is a freelance writer based in Louisville and author of The Cornbread Mafia: A Homegrown Syndicate’s Code of Silence and the Biggest Marijuana Bust in American History. He can be reached at @jimhigdon. Full disclosure: His father, Jimmy Higdon, is a Republican state senator in the Kentucky state legislature.      This article tagged under:    Congress   White House   Justice Department   Jeff Sessions   Marijuana   Donald Trump   Law And Order   Donald Trump Presidency       Show Comments       More from POLITICO Magazine            Off Message  Inside Puerto Rico’s Plan to Influence the Midterm Elections     By Edward-Isaac Dovere               Letter From Boston  How John Kelly’s Boston Neighborhood Led Him to Trump’s Side     By Ben Strauss               Law And Order  The FBI Raids on Trump’s Attorney Are Bad News for Trump     By Norman Eisen , Noah Bookbinder and Conor Shaw                   The Friday Cover            Read more                                                          More on Magazine         Our Latest   Weekly Newsletter   Print Archive   Web Archive   About Us   Write for Us   FAQ      POLITICO Magazine Links     News    POLITICO Home   Magazine   Election Results   Congress   State of the Union 2018   Video   Podcasts   POLITICO Pro   POLITICO Florida   POLITICO New Jersey   POLITICO New York   POLITICO Live     Blogs, Columns & Cartoons    Josh Gerstein   Rich Lowry   Jack Shafer   Matt Wuerker   Cartoon Carousel     Newsletters    Playbook   Playbook Power Briefing   Huddle   The Friday Cover   Morning Media   Influence   Morning Agriculture   Morning Cybersecurity   Morning Defense   Morning Education   Morning eHealth   Morning Energy   Morning Money   Morning Score   Morning Shift   Morning Tax   Morning Transportation   Morning Tech   Morning Trade   Pulse   Prescription Pulse     Policy    Agriculture   Cybersecurity   Defense   Education   eHealth   Employment & Immigration   Energy & Environment   Finance & Tax   Health Care   Technology   Trade   Transportation & Infrastructure     More Info    About Us   Advertising   Breaking News Alerts   Careers   Credit Card Payments   Digital Edition   FAQ   Feedback     Headlines   Photos   POWERJobs   Press   Print Subscriptions   RSS   Site Map         © 2018 POLITICO LLC    Terms of Service   Privacy Policy                                                                                Follow @RollingStone                           Pot in 2018: What to Expect     News  Video  Music  Politics  TV  Movies  Video Games  RS Country  RS Hip-Hop    More   News  Video  Music  Politics  TV  Movies  Video Games  RS Country  RS Hip-Hop  Lists  Culture  Galleries  Sports  Interviews  Long Reads  Artists  Ram Report  Album Reviews  50 Years of Music & Style  Movie Reviews  American Beauty  Live Reviews  Coverwall  Podcasts  50th Anniversary  Subscribe  The Photo Issue  Rolling Stone Newsletter  Glixel Newsletter                Trending       The Oral History of 'The Dinner Party,' the Best...         Rob Sheffield on Why the Latest Fleetwood Mac Breakup Is...         Fleetwood Mac Fires Lindsey Buckingham         Inside Michael Cohen's New York Hotel on the Day of the...          Pot in 2018: What to Expect  From vape clubs to legalization to how we talk about weed, our predictions for the next year in cannabis         Despite having Jeff Sessions as attorney general, the cannabis industry has advanced a lot over the past year – and will only get bigger. Credit: Jason Henry/The New York Times/Redux       By Amanda Chicago Lewis   December 29, 2017                         More News  2017: The Year Pot Policy Stood Still as Opioids Ravaged the Nation  Can Legal Pot Make You Rich?  Medical Pot Is Our Best Hope to Fight the Opioid Epidemic  Is Supporting Legal Pot Becoming Politically Viable in D.C.?  Pot Prisoners: Meet Five Victims of the War on Drugs  All Stories      When it comes to cannabis, 2017 was a much better year than anyone was expecting. Back in January, stoners and pot moguls alike were super paranoid about incoming Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his plans to shut down legal weed businesses from coast to coast. After a decade of steady progress on marijuana legalization – with about 90 percent of the country now supporting medical use and eight states having legalized recreational use – was the entire movement going to come crashing down? Related            The Official Guide to Being a Good Weed Citizen  From proper dosing to odor control to public-consumption boundaries, our guide to life out of the cannabis closet     A year later, almost no one believes there will be a federal crackdown on the entire cannabis industry. State-legal pot markets seem poised to match or exceed the value of black market pot by 2020. Sessions has admitted that marijuana is not as dangerous as heroin, and his tension with Trump is common knowledge. With the biggest state in the country about to begin recreational sales, and more and more politicians enviously eyeing the tax revenue coming out of places like Colorado and Oregon, legal pot is clearly here to stay. So what kinds of developments can we expect in the weed world for 2018? The first legal marijuana lounges Let&apos;s start with some great news: there are totally going to be legal marijuana lounges in the United States before the end of 2018! The biggest question is which city will get one open first: Las Vegas, West Hollywood, Boston or Denver. Considering nothing in Massachusetts is quite final yet, the smart money is on Denver, which actually passed a ballot initiative allowing licensed consumption spaces for marijuana back in 2016 but has had a fair amount of trouble implementing the law. You won&apos;t be allowed to smoke, you have to bring your own cannabis, and you have to sign a document saying you won&apos;t drive yourself home, but there&apos;s a good chance the country&apos;s first legal weed lounge will be in the capital of Colorado. Right now the front-runners for who might open first are a café called The Coffee Joint and a vape bar with an arcade called… wait for it… Vape and Play . If you&apos;re looking a pot hotspot where you can actually, you know, smoke pot, you might want to hold out for Vegas. "I think we&apos;ll have an ordinance voted on and approved by late March or early April," says former Nevada legalization campaign manager and current weed lobbyist Scot Rutledge. "I don&apos;t know that they&apos;ll be open by 4/20, but they should be open by the one year anniversary of recreational sales" – meaning by July. Sadly, the first Vegas pot lounges won&apos;t be on the Strip, which is technically not in the city of Las Vegas, but they&apos;ll be a short Lyft ride away and you&apos;ll be able to smoke. Huzzah! A few hours to the west, several cities in California have expressed interest in allowing cannabis social spaces, including West Hollywood, Palm Springs, San Francisco and Oakland. Advocate and aspiring lounge owner Jackie Subeck says the first ones will likely open their doors in West Hollywood this fall – including some spots where you will be allowed to buy pot on site and then smoke or vape it, just like a bar. "There&apos;s also going to be standalone lounges where you can&apos;t smoke or vape but you can buy infused products, like a bakery, or a spa with cannabis treatments," Subeck says. Confusion and a "bloodbath" in California Even though California will finally begin allowing the sale of recreational marijuana on January 1st, 2018, a lot of people are very nervous about how that is going to go. The state has had a largely unsupervised medical cannabis program in place since 1996 and now is trying to impose a strict regulatory regime on an enormous population of entrepreneurs and criminals, many of whom have never followed rules before.     Dispensaries have cropped up across California, but new regulations could mean the end for many of them.  Jim Wilson/The new York Times/Redux    "Look at what happened here for the last 20 years. It was anarchy," says Lord Jones founder and CEO Rob Rosenheck, whose posh weed-infused chocolates and lotions have become a celebrity favorite. "I think it will be a sloppy, chaotic, rough-and-tumble transition that will take 12 to 24 months to work itself out." Multiple people who I spoke with used the term "bloodbath" to describe the number of weed businesses they believe will fail. "You can&apos;t afford to suck," says Jeremy Plumb, director of production science at the marijuana growing company Prūf Cultivar and the co-founder of Farma, one of Portland, Oregon&apos;s most successful dispensaries. "There will be a massive oversupply in California, and the only people that will survive are either the ones that are super affluent and able to take every blow, or the ones that are really doing something with care and an unbelievable depth of skill." Of course, there is another option for California weed businesses that can&apos;t cut it in the legal market: stay underground and ship their products out of state. "The key word in 2018 is enforcement," says Jason Pinsky, the cannabis producer on Viceland&apos;s Bong Appetit and the chief cannabis advisor at marijuana delivery app Eaze. "In California, 90 percent of the brands that are out there are either going to disappear, or they&apos;re going to operate illegally. It&apos;s almost like the California weed industry is like an avalanche: to some degree, it&apos;s unstoppable. You&apos;re going to need to hire a lot more people in the policing business if you want to make it so all of these companies are going to stop doing business." The end of "indica" and "sativa" Pot snobs have been complaining about how meaningless the terms "indica" and "sativa" are for years, but I&apos;m starting to think that 2018 will finally be the year when this concept hits the public. According to stoner lore, indica weed produces a sedating "body" high and comes from a plant with shorter, fatter leaves, while sativa weed creates a more uplifting "mind" high and comes from a plant with longer, thinner leaves. But Plumb, the Portland dispensary co-founder, has been growing cannabis for decades, and finds these terms "absolutely offensive to any intelligent soul. There is no scientific basis where we can parse indica and sativa. You cannot connect morphology, a broad or narrow leaf, to the experience of a chemical phenotype. That&apos;s just a fucking massive disconnect." So what, pray tell, will replace this false classification? How will we describe marijuana strains in the future? Most likely we will begin focusing more on the entire chemical mix of what&apos;s in our weed – what&apos;s known as the cannabinoid and terpene profile. THC is the most famous cannabinoid, as it&apos;s the one that gets you high, but there are several other relevant compounds that can affect how a pot product makes you feel, including the physically relaxing CBD, the sleep-inducing myrcene and the lavender-smelling linalool. "If you think about weed as a vehicle, THC would be the gas pedal, and the terpenes are your steering wheel," says Pinsky, who has overseen quite a bit of public education regarding the variety of compounds found in cannabis on Bong Appetit .     Instead of indica and sativa, we'll have a wealth of terms to describe marijuana.  Ethan Miller/Getty Images    A few of the people I spoke with suggested that in 2018, more weed businesses will talk about the effects of various compound formulations in tinctures and vape pens, even if the indica/sativa distinction remains part of how dispensaries sell actual pot for another couple of years. Already, well-informed budtenders at high-end pot shops are helping customers make smarter choices that have nothing to do with the false dichotomy of body high versus mind high. "The tiniest bit of education results in consumers being able to access these distinctive chemotypes, which open the door to novel effects," Plumb says. Canada takes over the world In these times of tumult and prohibition, our kindly neighbors to the north are looking more and more savvy. While the federal government in the United States continues to insist that marijuana has absolutely no medical benefit, making commerce exceedingly difficult for anyone working with state-legal weed, Canada began the process of making pot available to all adults as soon as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took office in 2015. Now, with millions of marijuana dollars flowing through Canadian stock exchanges and recreational sales set to begin in 2018, the Canadian cannabis industry seems poised to dominate the globe. "These Canadian companies have access to money that no one in the U.S. has, and they&apos;re going to kill us," says Kris Krane, the president and co-founder of cannabis operations and consulting firm 4Front Ventures. "We&apos;re ceding the future of the industry to Canada. They&apos;re going to buy everybody."     Canada will begin recreational sale of cannabis in 2018.  Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press/AP    There is a truly mind-boggling amount of weed money flying around up there. The Wall Street Journal reported in September that about half of the trading activity on the Canadian Securities Exchange involved marijuana businesses. That&apos;s right: half of all of the trading on the entire exchange was related to pot. Meanwhile, down in the U.S., there&apos;s pretty much no chance in hell that a dispensary or grow operation could even get listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At the same time, Canadian pot companies are starting to acquire pieces of pot companies in other countries, as well as export their product to places like Germany, Brazil and Australia. Then again, not every investor is afraid of Canada. "Once the U.S. opens up, well, Canadians are nice people, but the U.S. will still dominate," says Evan Eneman, the managing director of Snoop Dogg&apos;s weed-focused venture capital fund, Casa Verde Capital. "The top line revenue of a licensed producer in Canada is probably still smaller than a single retail location in Los Angeles." Economic concerns replace philanthropy For a long time, marijuana legalization has been funded by progressive billionaires hoping to improve our criminal justice system – people like tech mogul Sean Parker, investor George Soros and the late Peter Lewis, who started Progressive Insurance. But heading into the elections 2018, fundraisers and political operatives say that the way we&apos;ve been legalizing is changing. Not only are we running out of states that allow the billionaire-funded ballot initiatives that have been the primary driver of legalization, but the billionaires themselves are starting to move on. "There&apos;s definitely a shift. The social justice folks who had funded legalization up to now seem to have moved on to other issues," says David Kaufman, a cannabis consultant who served as director of outreach and statewide partnerships for Proposition 64, the 2016 ballot initiative that legalized recreational use of marijuana in California. "The funders behind Proposition 64 are not necessarily going to be the folks that legalize in any other states." In the past few years, the political motivations behind marijuana legalization have become increasingly economic, whether it&apos;s politicians hoping to rake in the tax revenue or businessmen paying to lobby for an industry worth over $40 billion. In 2015, a group of investors – including former 98 Degrees lead singer Nick Lachey – attempted to legalize marijuana in Ohio such that all legal cannabis would need to be grown on property owned by the people who paid for the ballot initiative. While that initiative failed, it may have signaled the beginning of the end of legalizing weed with the goal of keeping people out of prison. In the past year, several prominent cannabis activists either retired or left the movement. Now, many are saying that legislative change will need to rely more on money from the pot industry itself, which could tip the nature of legalization toward helping the rich get richer, rather than accounting for the injustices of prohibition. Possible legalization in New Jersey will mean mounting pressure on New York New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is not about that weed life. He somehow still thinks that pot is a gateway drug , and wouldn&apos;t even allow the state&apos;s medical marijuana program to include actual bud. But by the end of 2018, he may be rethinking his position.     Phil Murphy will be the next governor of New Jersey – which will almost certainly mean cannabis legalization in the state.  Eduardo Munoz Alvarez/Getty Images    With recreational marijuana sales set to begin in Massachusetts over the summer and incoming New Jersey governor Phil Murphy poised to legalize pot as quickly as possible, there&apos;s a good chance that hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers will soon be doing a sort of reverse commute – driving or hopping a train out to the suburbs to pick up legal weed. Even Connecticut seems close to legalizing, with some predicting the state will turn in the next two years. "If Jersey and Connecticut both do it through the legislature, New York is surrounded. New York City is surrounded. You could take a PATH train from Manhattan and be in New Jersey in 15 minutes," says Krane, the president of 4Front Ventures. "When sales figures start rolling out from dispensaries in Hoboken and Jersey City, elected officials in New York City are going to throw a fit." Of course, most insiders say that there is no way New Jersey will begin recreational sales in 2018. The state could expand their existing medical program significantly, but it will likely take another year or two to write and implement a full legalization bill.   More News  2017: The Year Pot Policy Stood Still as Opioids Ravaged the Nation  Can Legal Pot Make You Rich?  Medical Pot Is Our Best Hope to Fight the Opioid Epidemic  Is Supporting Legal Pot Becoming Politically Viable in D.C.?  Pot Prisoners: Meet Five Victims of the War on Drugs  All Stories                        Trending   Ranked on a scale from 1 to 10, the trending score reflects the number of users reading a story in real time.  What is this?     The Oral History of 'The Dinner Party,' the...      9.8         Rob Sheffield on Why the Latest Fleetwood Mac...      9.7         Fleetwood Mac Fires Lindsey Buckingham      9.4         Inside Michael Cohen's New York Hotel on the...      7.8         Will Trump Really Fire Mueller? And 3 More...      7.3                       © Rolling Stone 2018 Digital Edition  Subscribe  Give a Gift  Coverwall  Contact  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Your Ad Choices  Terms of Use  Customer Service  Advertise                                   Skip to content          Topics     xml:space="preserve">                     Subscriber Services       Manage Subscription    Newsletters    EZPay    Delivery Issue    Subscriber Terms       Local       Earthquakes    Data Desk    California    Times OC    California Journal    Education    Readers' Representative Journal    Local +       L.A. Now    Politics       Essential Washington    Essential Politics       Business       Company Town    Autos    Michael Hiltzik    Consumer Confidential    Business +    Auto +       Nation       Nation Now       Entertainment       Arts & Culture    Hero Complex    Movies    Television    Music    Gossip    Envelope    TV Listings    Entertainment +       Opinion       Op-Ed    Opinion L.A.    Editorials    Readers React    Top of the Ticket    Endorsements       Food       Jonathan Gold    Daily Dish       Sports       Dodgers    USC    UCLA    MLB    Angels    Boxing & MMA    Ducks    Clippers    Chargers    Lakers    NBA    NFL    Olympics    Rams    Soccer    Sports Now    More Sports    High School    Kings       World       Afghanistan & Pakistan    Africa    Asia    Brazil    Europe    Mexico & The Americas    Middle East       Obituaries    Real Estate       Hot Property       California Living       Fashion    Health & Wellness    L.A. Affairs    Pets    Home & Garden    Books    Health +    Living +       Technology    Science       Science Now       Travel       Cruises    Mexico & Latin America    Theme Parks    Travel News & Deals    Travel +       Visuals       Graphics       Español    E-Newspaper    Extras       Games    Comics       Shop       Los Angeles Times Archives    Los Angeles Times Store    Los Angeles Times Photos    Our Dishonest President Book    Local Ads    Marketplace    Local Listings    Booking.com    Travel Offers       About       Press Releases    Giving                  Search     xml:space="preserve">                             Local    Politics    Sports    Entertainment    Opinion    Place an ad                             Advertisement            Nation    LA Times    What is the future of recreational marijuana in Trump's America?                  By Kurtis Lee      Mar 07, 2017  |  3:00 AM                                      Since the mid 2000s, proponents of marijuana legalization have succeeded in advancing their cause almost twice as often with laws passed in state legislatures than with ballot initiatives approved by voters.                         It's a movement charging ahead — for now.      Legalizing recreational marijuana is currently a priority in more than a dozen states as polls show overwhelming support and lawmakers see a way to bring in hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue. So far, eight states have legalized recreational cannabis.           Advertisement            But in recent weeks, the Trump administration has alarmed some pot supporters by warning states that have legalized recreational marijuana — California, Colorado and Oregon, among them — that federal law enforcement agents could soon come after them.         "I am definitely not a fan of expanded use of marijuana," U.S. Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions told reporters recently. (Last year, Sessions characterized marijuana as a "very real danger.")                        Here's a look at the current state of marijuana in America:         When did marijuana legalization begin?      The movement began more than 20 years ago.      In 1996, Californians overwhelmingly passed Proposition 215, which legalized marijuana for medicinal use. Since then, 27 other states and the District of Columbia have passed laws — a mix of voter-approved ballot measures and legislation — legalizing marijuana for medicinal use.      Scientific research has consistently shown that, for certain conditions, marijuana can be of medical value.                 Indeed, a report released in January by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine found that there is conclusive and substantial evidence that cannabis is effective for the treatment of chronic pain in adults, including nausea from chemotherapy and multiple sclerosis-related spasms.         Similar findings have shown up in medical reports over the years.      But wait, isn’t marijuana still illegal at the federal level?      Yes — kind of.      Under federal law, marijuana is viewed as a Schedule I drug — the highest classification, also including heroin and ecstasy.      "States, they can pass the laws they choose. I would just say, it does remain a violation of federal law to distribute marijuana throughout any place in the United States, whether a state legalizes it or not," Sessions told reporters.      But states that have legalized medicinal pot have some leeway.      In 2014, Congress passed a spending bill that included a provision that bars the Justice Department from using funds to go after state medical cannabis programs. The provision remains in place.      What about recreational marijuana?      It's not protected under that provision.           Advertisement            Since 2012, eight states — with Colorado and Washington state leading the way — have legalized the sale and possession of marijuana for anyone over the age of 21. One result is that the states are raking in big bucks.         Last year, Colorado brought in nearly $200 million in tax revenue off sales, while Washington state netted about $256 million.      What is the Trump administration planning to do?      It's unclear. Aside from saying states that legalized recreational pot could be targeted for federal action, the administration did not get into specifics, though it certainly suggested a sterner approach than the Obama administration.      White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer likened marijuana use to the opioid addiction epidemic and said the Justice Department would review how to proceed.      What did Trump the candidate say about legal marijuana?      Trump, who rarely faced questions about cannabis legalization on the campaign trial, made remarks that appear at odds with the recent comments from Sessions and Spicer.      "I think it's up to the states," Trump said in an interview with a Denver television station in August. "I'm a states person. I think it should be up to the states, absolutely."      So recreational legalization began under President Obama. What did he do?      To be blunt, mostly nothing.      Other than a few raids early on, the Obama administration viewed marijuana legalization mostly as a states' rights issue.      In a memo released in August 2013, then-Deputy Atty. Gen. James Cole noted that as long as state legalization efforts didn't undermine a range of federal priorities — such as keeping pot out of the hands of minors and preventing marijuana from being grown on public land — his office would exercise prosecutorial discretion.      In other words, the Justice Department directed law enforcement resources to other drug priorities, such as the growing use of opiate painkillers across the country.      Obama, in an exit interview with Rolling Stone in November, said he was not "somebody who believes that legalization is a panacea."      "But I do believe that treating this as a public-health issue, the same way we do with cigarettes or alcohol, is the much smarter way to deal with it," he said.      Are states that have legalized pot looking for help from the federal government?      Yes.      Because marijuana is illegal under federal law, banks are prohibited from taking money from dispensaries selling pot, forcing an all-cash business that creates persistent fears of violent crime among employees.      Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper has called on Congress to pass legislation that halts federal regulators from penalizing financial institutions for serving the marijuana industry.      He has support from members of Congress, such as Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.), who in February helped form the bipartisan Congressional Cannabis Caucus. The group aims to craft and pass federal legislation that helps states that have legalized marijuana.      "The results are in," Polis said in a statement last month. "A majority of Americans live in a state that has some form of legal access to cannabis, and the federal prohibition of marijuana has been a complete and utter failure."      Are more states looking to legalize?      Yes — many more.      So far this year, lawmakers in 17 states — Connecticut, Minnesota and Hawaii, to name a few — have introduced more than two dozen measures to legalize recreational pot for adults and tax its sales.      "Our focus is on revenue and bringing in cash to the state as legalization becomes more and more widespread," Mary Washington, a state delegate from Maryland who introduced a bill recently that would tax marijuana like alcohol, told The Times. "Why not get it done now? We're elected to do a job. More and more states are moving in this direction."      kurtis.lee@latimes.com      Twitter: @kurtisalee      ALSO      Here's what's driving lawmakers working to legalize recreational pot in 17 more states      Here's what Colorado's governor has to tell other states about legalizing marijuana                           Today's Headlines Newsletter   Weekdays     A digest of essential news, insight and analysis from L.A. Times editors.                      You are now following this newsletter. See all newsletters.              Advertisement         Be the first to comment  Hide Comments      Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by SolidOpinion.                          Advertisement                            Advertisement                                                   U.S. Edition U.S. Edition International Middle East 日本 한국 Pakistan Polska  Tue, Apr 10, 2018  Sign In  Subscribe    Search form  Search  U.S. World Business Tech & Science Culture Sports Health Opinion Green Rankings      Trump and Sessions Are At Odds Over Prosecuting Legal Marijuana States By  Jonathan Blanks   On 9/8/17 at 11:05 AM   Share         Opinion This article first appeared on the Cato Institute site. While candidate Donald Trump promised to protect medical marijuana on the campaign trail , President Trump’s Justice Department wants to be more aggressive against state-legal marijuana under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). Attorney General Jeff Sessions personally asked Congress for funds to prosecute medical marijuana cases in states where it is legal. The legal sale of recreational marijuana remains limited to a handful of states, but 29 states plus the District of Columbia allow the prescription and distribution of medical marijuana. Recommended Slideshows 51 In Pictures: The 50 Most Powerful Military Forces in the World 44 In Pictures: Every U.S. President Ranked From Best to Worst 51 In Pictures: Top 50 U.S. Cities Ranked by Quality of Life And Average Salary National polling shows that more than half of Americans favor marijuana legalization , but an even larger majority want the federal government to leave marijuana alone in states where it is legal. This represents a glaring violation of federalism—the notion that states should generally set their own policies free from federal oversight or interference—and the Republican-controlled Congress should have no part of it. Since 2014, Congress has prevented the Department of Justice from using funds to prosecute state-legal medical marijuana transactions.  Keep up with this story and more by subscribing now What was then called the Rohrabacher-Farr Amendment (now known as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment) is a rider to the Omnibus Appropriations Bill that defunds prosecutions for state-legal medical marijuana offenses.    A cannabis sativa plant on July 2, 2005.  GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2  Congress has the constitutional authority, colloquially known as “the power of the purse,” to prohibit government agencies from using tax dollars for particular activities, such as prosecuting federal marijuana violations in states that have chosen to legalize it. Because the Senate included the no-prosecution amendment in its version of this year’s budget while the House did not, it will be up to a conference committee to decide whether the amendment stands or falls. If it does fall, hundreds of businesses will be threatened and countless chronic pain sufferers and other patients will face uncertainty in their quality of life. Moreover, studies suggest that some patients deprived of medical cannabis turn to opioids to ease their pain, putting them in greater risk of dependency or addiction in the so-called opioid epidemic. Attorney General Sessions’s attempts to link medical marijuana to the opioid crisis fly in the face of evidence from the National Institute on Drug Abuse that show places with access to medical marijuana experience fewer opioid overdoses than those without access. A RAND study also found that prescriptions of opioids and reported opioid abuse decline where state-legal marijuana dispensaries operate. Despite its perceived association with the political left, medical marijuana is not just a blue-state issue. Ten of the 29 states with legal medical marijuana—and 115 electoral votes—went for Donald Trump in the 2016 election. More than 200 million American residents, roughly 62 percent of the population, live in states where medical marijuana is legal. Nationwide, according to a 2017 CBS poll, 71 percent of Americans—including 63 percent of Republicans —oppose federal interference with state-legal marijuana. Perhaps most telling, a 2017 Quinnipiac poll found that 94 percent of American voters approve of adult medical marijuana use if prescribed by a doctor. Congress doesn’t just decide whether federal tax dollars can be used to enforce particular drugs laws—it also has the power to determine which substances should be under federal control in the first place. All drugs regulated and banned under federal law are “ scheduled ”—that is, ranked by factors like rates of abuse, potential for chemical dependence, and potential medical uses. Schedule I, which includes heroin, marijuana, and LSD, is the most restrictive and recognizes no legitimate uses, and the scales descend from there to Schedule V, which includes various analgesics and other medicines with lower potential for abuse. As the evidence continues to mount, an increasing number of doctors, patients, and policymakers reject the federal government’s assertion that marijuana has no accepted medical use and must therefore remain a Schedule I drug—particularly when opium and cocaine are classified as less restrictive Schedule II drugs on the premise that they have legitimate medical applications. Although the negative consequences of marijuana use and abuse may be downplayed in much of the discourse around legalization, the medicinal benefits to individuals have swayed enough doctors, patients, state legislatures, and public opinion that Schedule I designation ceases to make any sense. At least one Republican Congressman has proposed legislation to de-schedule marijuana entirely. In fact, Rep. Tom Garrett, a Republican former prosecutor from Virginia, introduced H.R. 1227, the Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act of 2017 . The bill would remove marijuana from the list of federal controlled substances while still prohibiting its sale across state lines. This would enable states to decide for themselves whether to legalize marijuana for medicinal or recreational purposes. Marijuana would then be subject to the state and local laws like those that apply to tobacco and alcohol. While legal marijuana may not be for every state or locale, it is clearly popular enough that the federal government should end its attempt to prohibit it where it is state legal, particularly for medicinal purposes. Millions of Americans and their doctors have determined that cannabis has medical benefits, and almost two-thirds of the states have recognized that. Congress need not take the lead on this issue, but it should at least recognize the political realities and get out of the way. Jonathan Blanks is a Research Associate in Cato’s Project on Criminal Justice and Managing Editor of PoliceMisconduct.net. A version of this post was also published at  In Justice Today . Request Reprint or Submit Correction         Most Read     Sign up for our Newsletter  Sign up  Update your preferences »   Related Stories   Is Sessions’s Objection to Marijuana Racially Motivated   Medical Marijuana Protections Blocked by Legislators   You Can Buy Grass in Vegas. But Where to Smoke It? Latest Slideshows   51  50 Best-Selling Albums in U.S. History   51  50 Poorest Members of Congress   51  Royal Family Photo Album: Prince William, Kate Middleton and Children   55  In Pictures: Mexico Border Patrol Agents Step Up Illegal Immigrant Arrests     Choose a Membership That's Perfect for You!   Print & Digital  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Print Only  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Digital Only  Free access to 40+ digital editions  Website access  Daily Newsletter  Subscribe        © 2018 Newsweek LLC About Us Corrections Contact Us Newsweek Media Group Travel Advertise Copyright Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Archive                                      Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                       The Americas    Trudeau vowed to legalize marijuana across Canada by July. It hasn’t been that easy.                   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has shown no signs of wavering in his push for marijuana legalization, which he promised in his successful election campaign two years ago. (Pool photo by Ukas Michael/Getty Images)    By Alan Freeman   By Alan Freeman   October 5, 2017      OTTAWA — Canada is set to become the first advanced industrialized ­nation to legalize and regulate marijuana from production to consumption by next July, but increasingly, Canadians are wondering: What’s the hurry?  The government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is pressing ahead with legislation to legalize cannabis, a move that a majority of the Canadian public supports. But stakeholders such as police chiefs and psychiatrists are urging caution and even delay, worried that a rush to legalization will encourage consumption among young people and increase the incidence of impaired driving.  Under the proposed legislation, the Canadian government would license the growing of ­cannabis by tightly regulated producers and set standards for potency and penalties for abuse; the provinces would decide on methods for distribution.  “If legislation is ready to go in July 2018, policing will not be ready to go in August. It’s impossible,” Rick Barnum, deputy commissioner of the Ontario Provincial Police, told the health committee of Canada’s House of Commons last month as it studied the proposed law.  Barnum was part of a contingent of police chiefs from across Canada expressing concern that there isn’t time to train enough police officers to detect impaired driving among cannabis users and that if police are not ready for legalization, organized crime will take advantage of the situation to secure its hold on the market.    Medicinal marijuana plants flower in Smith Falls, Ontario. (Lars Hagberg/AFP/Getty Images)   Doctors are also worried by the legislation, which will set the minimum age for consumption at 18, although Canada’s 10 provinces will be permitted to raise the minimum age if they wish.  The Quebec Association of Psychiatrists has called the proposed law unacceptable , arguing that cannabis use in young people can lead to attention deficit and memory problems as well as an increased risk of psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. The group wants to set the minimum age at 21 or older, ban all advertising of cannabis and prohibit the growing of cannabis at home. (The proposed law would limit cannabis growers to four plants per household for personal use.)  “When you expose a growing brain to cannabis, you actually change the way it grows and matures,” said Karine Igartua, president of the Quebec psychiatry group.  Opinion surveys continue to show that Canadians support legalization in principle. But in a recent survey conducted by Nanos Research, 57 percent expressed a lack of confidence that the federal and provincial governments will be ready with a legal framework for cannabis sales by next July. And 48 percent are worried that legalization would lead to increased consumption by youths.  “People are still quite supportive of the legalization of marijuana, but they want the government to get it right,” pollster Nik Nanos said, noting that approval of legalization has been in the range of 60 percent in several surveys.  Trudeau shows no signs of wavering in his push for legalization, which he promised in his successful election campaign two years ago. “The current framework is hurting Canadians,” he said recently. “Criminal gangs and street gangs are making millions of dollars of profits off the sale of marijuana, and we need to put an end to this policing that does not work.”   [ The unbelievable popularity of Canada’s Justin Trudeau ]     In the United States, 29 states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana in some form, with nine jurisdictions allowing recreational use of pot, but cannabis remains illegal at the federal level, leading to a patchwork of regulations and enforcement.  The Canadian process is designed to result in full legalization across the country. Uruguay is the only country with a full regime for the legalized sale of cannabis, although a complication with U.S. banking regulations could imperil the country’s new marijuana market.  Trudeau’s government hopes that legalization will reduce access to marijuana by underage users. Bill Blair, a former Toronto police chief who is now a member of Parliament and Trudeau’s point person on cannabis legalization, said he understands public skepticism over whether the legislation will achieve this goal. But he says Canada already has the highest rates of pot usage among young people in the industrialized world. “You can’t regulate something that’s prohibited,” he said.  That is why the government plans to retain all of the current sanctions against the illegal production and distribution of cannabis. And it plans to add as a new offense the sale of cannabis to those 17 and younger, with a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison.  Blair said he received plenty of “candid advice” from Colorado, Washington and other states that have legalized recreational marijuana. In particular, Colorado officials suggested that Canadian authorities “start off strict” and relax regulations later. Doing the opposite is much more difficult, he said.  That is one reason that the Canadian government will not be ready with rules governing the sale of edibles by July 1. Such rules will come later, after more study, so edibles will remain illegal. “You’ll be able to make your own cake [with legal cannabis], but you won’t be able to sell it until there are strict rules in place,” Blair said.  He also gave assurances of strict controls on branding for cannabis sales. “There will be limits on how branding can be displayed so it can’t be used for marketing to kids,” he said.  Another way that marijuana legalization is shaping up differently from the U.S. experience is the decision by Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, to directly control marijuana sales through a network of up to 150 outlets run by a subsidiary of the provincial alcohol monopoly. Ontario Finance Minister Charles Sousa said the provincial government intends to shut down pot dispensaries that have popped up around the province and restrict sales to its own outlets.  The province of Quebec is believed to be leaning in the same direction.  The private dispensaries, which now offer medical marijuana and had hoped to expand into the recreational market, plan to fight back.  Paul Lewin, a Toronto lawyer specializing in cannabis cases, says Ontario’s marketing plan will not succeed and will force the dispensaries underground. “In the places where it will be a monopoly, it will fail,” Lewin said, calling the proposed state-run monopoly a new form of “prohibition.”  “The province [of Ontario] just wants a lot of money,” Lewin said.  How profitable the cannabis market ends up being for the government remains to be seen. While officials such as Blair concede a need to keep prices high to discourage consumption among young people, they are aware that if prices are too high, illicit producers will stay in business.  On Tuesday, Trudeau announced to provincial leaders that the federal government plans to impose a tax of $1 — about 80 U.S. cents — per gram on cannabis costing up to $10 a gram, plus 10 percent on cannabis priced above $10 a gram. He promised that the federal government would split the revenue 50-50 with the provinces, but the premiers have argued for more.  As for the push for a delay in the legalization date, Blair remains determined. “It’s important that we get this done,” he said. “The price of delay is continued deaths on our roadways, continued jeopardy for kids and billions of dollars in profits for organized crime.”   Read more:    Meet the Sikh politician who might ‘out-Trudeau Justin Trudeau’    ‘Build that wall?’ Some Canadians are calling for more border control, too    Canada’s infrastructure projects take off while Trump’s plans sputter    Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world    Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news                                                  Close    Now Playing                                                  Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Opinion Supported by Op-Ed Contributor Is Canada Ready for Legal Marijuana? Image The Canadian government is expected to legalize recreational marijuana by July 2018. Credit Robert F. Bukaty/Associated Press By  Martin Patriquin Aug. 24, 2017 MONTREAL — Black-market marijuana has been very good for Michael. For 22 years, he has grown and sold the stuff in and around Montreal. An illegal activity punishable by up to life in prison, selling the pungent bounty that he cultivates in his basement has nonetheless given Michael the sheen of middle-class respectability (though he would not give me his real name for fear of legal repercussions). Marijuana paid for the bungalow and a half-acre of land in a Montreal suburb. It paid for vacations, golf memberships and his Mercedes. In his bachelor years, it paid for his copious restaurant bills. Now it keeps his young children in hockey gear. In the mid-1990s, a time of tight supply and higher stakes, he was selling a pound for $2,500 and grossing $395,000 a year. The price has nearly halved since then, but Michael still lives very comfortably. A bar manager by trade and for appearances, the 47-year-old said that 90 percent of his income is derived from selling marijuana. The Canadian government is expected to legalize recreational marijuana by July 2018, in large part to put an end to the extensive and enduring black market for the drug on which people like Michael have thrived. Canadian businesses are anticipating a windfall. A 2016 Deloitte report estimated the legal Canadian marijuana market will be worth $18 billion annually. Far from bemoaning the potential end to his livelihood, Michael says he cannot wait for marijuana to be legalized. “We all want to transition to legal,” Michael said. “I want to do this without looking over my shoulder all the time. I want regulation and quality control. I want to pay taxes.” Longtime growers like Michael say their experience in the field, however illicit, gives them an advantage over the many large, deep-pocketed operations that have already set up across the country in anticipation of legalization. Given the chance, they say they can be the marijuana equivalent of the craft beer market, in which taste, smell and feel matter nearly as much as narcotic effect. “When legalization happens, people will be able to get their weed at the ‘dépanneur,’ ” said a woman who goes by the name Betty Cracker, using a Québécois term for corner store. “But I have 10 years’ experience, and I can refine my niche to get into the new market. You have to be creative.” Betty, 34, packages her sumptuous-looking baked goods as though they sprang from a high-end bakery, and delivers them personally to her clients. In a legal market, she could have access to capital and take credit cards. Yet because her business is illegal, she cooks in her own kitchen with an often jury-rigged supply line of marijuana and an understandable sense of paranoia. “I want to evolve and give the best product, which means testing and consistency,” she said. “Right now, it’s very hard to be consistent. It’s still a punishable offense, and they are still enforcing the law on people like me.” Big business, however, has perked up. Just over a third of the 54 licensed producers — growers and sellers who trade in medical marijuana, and will be able to do so for the recreational market once it is legalized — are publicly traded companies. The three biggest have a combined market cap of over $2.5 billion. Some are internationally owned, and most if not all have an eye on the recreational market. The reason is the demand for cannabis, which is expected to be at least 600,000 kilograms a year — about 1.32 million pounds — according to the Deloitte study. (The country’s 54 licensed producers currently produce about 20,000 pounds of dried marijuana a year.) With more than 12 percent of Canadians 15 and older (nearly 3.5 million people) reporting to have used cannabis in the past year, according to a 2012 report, many people are worried about a bottleneck in supply. Unlike the Canadian booze magnates of yore, who used their heft to muscle out smaller players once alcohol became legal in the United States following Prohibition, several of the bigger marijuana companies say they would potentially welcome, and even buy from, growers like Michael. Others, too, see a business upside to legalization. Under the proposed law, Canadians of legal age will be allowed to grow up to four marijuana plants for their own consumption. The market has already responded in kind with several companies selling home kits, phone apps and growing advice to the millions of potential amateur green thumbs across the country. The challenge for anyone wanting to go legal is getting a license to do so. Becoming a licensed producer is a marathon exercise in bureaucracy that can take up to three years. A license also requires a criminal-background check. Michael, who served a nine-month jail sentence in 2005 for marijuana trafficking, said this could keep him out of the legal system. It is one of the quandaries of legalizing marijuana, which has been illegal in Canada since 1923. Many of the people with expertise in coaxing quality marijuana from the earth have criminal records, which would potentially keep them out of the legal market. The federal government is keenly aware of the problems. Health Canada recently streamlined the licensing process, allowing for increased growing capacity among existing license holders and shorter delays for applicants. Depending on the circumstances, the government may also be willing to overlook a few past weed-related indiscretions for would-be licensees. This is the carrot end of the equation. The stick: up to 14 years in jail for selling or distributing marijuana. Michael wants to go legal, but he’ll stay in the black market if need be. Legal weed, he pointed out, will be subject to government inspections and quality-control standards. All of this will make it more expensive. A gram of weed costs Canopy Growth Corporation , the country’s largest marijuana company, $2.30 to produce, according to the company’s recent financial statements, and will be subject to both federal and provincial sales tax. In his basement, Michael can grow a gram of Headbanger — “Indica-heavy strain, very heavy stone, don’t smoke it during the day,” he says — for about 40 cents, tax-free. He’ll just have to keep looking over his shoulder. Martin Patriquin is a columnist for iPolitics.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . A version of this article appears in print on in The International New York Times . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS                                      Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         3 States That May Legalize Medical Marijuana Next (1 Is a Big Surprise)  Medical cannabis is already legal in 28 states, and soon enough that figure could be over 30.            Sean Williams  ( TMFUltraLong )    Dec 3, 2016 at 9:12AM       Image source: Getty Images.  This could very well go down as the best year for the marijuana industry on record. It's tough to top 1996, the first year medical marijuana was approved in a state (California), or 2012, when Colorado and Washington simultaneously became the first states to legalize the sale of recreational cannabis to adults aged 21 and up. However, in 2016 the pot industry saw residents in nine states vote on marijuana initiatives, with eight states (sorry Arizona) voting to approve their respective marijuana initiative or amendment.  Cannabis has had a stellar 2016  Following the 2016 elections, eight states (and Washington, D.C.) have recreational marijuana laws on the books, which is double where we began the year, and a whopping 28 states have now legalized medical cannabis. This year, five new states -- Pennsylvania, Ohio, Florida, North Dakota, and Arkansas -- have legalized the use of medical cannabis to treat certain ailments such as epilepsy, cancer, and glaucoma, to name a few.  This rapid state-level expansion has business booming for the legal marijuana industry. Investment firm Cowen & Co. has projected that legal sales could climb from $6 billion today to $50 billion in a decade. That's great news for state and local governments that are looking for additional sources of revenue -- and an incredible opportunity for marijuana businesses.  This expansion is also a big win for medical marijuana patients. Having more than half of all U.S. states legalize medical weed represents a major step forward in potential treatment pathways. Nationally, according to a 2015 CBS News poll, 84% of Americans want to see medical marijuana legalized nationwide.  Yet marijuana remains a schedule 1, and therefore illicit, drug at the federal level, leaving states to pass cannabis laws individually. Furthermore, two dozen U.S. states, some of which are led by conservative lawmakers who oppose the expansion of marijuana, had neither an initiative nor a referendum, which could make it difficult for certain patients to gain access to medical marijuana.  Image source: Getty Images.  Three states that could legalize medical marijuana next  Of the 22 states that haven't legalized medical cannabis, some may never legalize it. However, the following three states could very well be the next to legalize medical marijuana, and one is quite the shocker.       Oklahoma  Medical cannabis supporters in Oklahoma tried diligently to get State Question 788 on the ballot prior to the November elections, but a battle in the Oklahoma Supreme Court squashed that hope.  On one hand, Oklahomans have collected more 67,700 signatures in favor of putting a medical cannabis measure on the ballot to be voted on by residents. This was nearly 2,000 signatures more than was needed, and opponents didn't challenge the signatures collected. In short, it's not a question of whether a medical cannabis initiative will be voted on; it's just a matter of when.  On the other hand, detailing the title of Question 788 has proven a sticky situation. Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, long an ardent opponent of the expansion of cannabis, rewrote the title of the bill in such a way that the question appears to ask whether "marijuana" should be legalized in Oklahoma as opposed to "medical marijuana." Though readers would discover that medical marijuana is what's being voted on by reading further, the rewrite of the bill -- in particular the first sentence, which does not include the term "medical" -- is somewhat misleading, and proponents fear it could be defeated without the original title. Thus Question 788 is headed to the Oklahoma Supreme Court to decide whether the original title language can be used as opposed to Pruitt's modified title.  Oklahomans may have to wait a while to find out the verdict, but a medical marijuana measure of some sorts is heading to ballots within the next two years, and it seems to have a decent shot of passing.  Image source: Pixabay.  Missouri  Another state with a strong chance of getting a medical marijuana initiative on the ballot in 2018 is Missouri. The Show-Me state was already one of the finalists on track to get a medical cannabis initiative on the 2016 ballot, but it wound up falling a few thousand votes short of the signatures needed when Secretary of State Jason Kander invalidated more than 10,000 signatures.  Interestingly, however, Kander came out in support of using the legislative process to legalize medical cannabis shortly after the measure failed to collect enough signatures to get on the 2016 ballot. In a statement from the secretary of state's office, Kander said:   While supporters of this important proposal can try to put it on the ballot again in two years, I believe it is time for the state legislature to step up. The Missouri General Assembly should pass legislation to allow medical marijuana so Missouri families that could greatly benefit from it don't have to watch their loved ones continue suffering. If the legislature is not willing to do that, they should at least put the measure on the ballot themselves in 2018 to give Missouri voters the opportunity to decide on the issue.   With Kander in their corner and marijuana advocacy groups now focusing their attention on Missouri, a medical marijuana measure looks to have a good shot at being on the 2018 ballot -- and probably passing based on national sentiment toward medical pot.  Image source: Pixabay.       Texas  Remember that shocker I promised? Well, this is it. The Lone Star state of Texas could be in a prime position to legalize medical marijuana within the next two years.  Historically, Republican-led states are a tough sell for medical or recreational cannabis. Speaking generally, Republican lawmakers take a pretty conservative approach to marijuana use, with many avoiding legalization within their respective states. Texas is a longtime Republican stronghold, so it would seem likely that medical cannabis will remain illegal.  However, times could be changing. Earlier this year, Senate Bill 339 surprisingly passed in both the state's House and Senate, and Gov. Greg Abbott signed it into law. This bill allows patients suffering from a rare form of epilepsy access to cannabidiol, or CBD, the non-psychoactive component of marijuana. Furthermore, at the State Convention of the Republican Party of Texas, Republicans approved part of a platform calling for a law to "allow doctors to determine the appropriate use of cannabis to prescribed patients." The Texas Department of Public Safety is set to begin granting CBD permits in June 2017, and it's possible an expansion of medical marijuana's use could soon follow.  Legalizing medical marijuana in Texas could also generate substantial sales on the order of $2 billion to $3 billion annually. This isn't to say that Texas is having difficulty meeting its budgetary needs, but the tax revenue generated from medical cannabis would further buoy the state's budget.  A fairly recent Texas Tegna Poll found 71% support for legalizing medical pot in the state compared to just 19% opposition. The remainder were undecided. This overwhelming support, coupled with a softening legislative stance and some very large dollar figures, could push Texas to legalize medical cannabis by 2018.     Sean Williams has no material interest in any companies mentioned in this article. You can follow him on CAPS under the screen name TMFUltraLong , and check him out on Twitter, where he goes by the handle @TMFUltraLong .  The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Sean Williams  ( TMFUltraLong )     A Fool since 2010, and a graduate from UC San Diego with a B.A. in Economics, Sean specializes in the healthcare sector and investment planning. You'll often find him writing about Obamacare, marijuana, drug and device development, Social Security, taxes, retirement issues and general macroeconomic topics of interest. Follow @TMFUltraLong          Article Info     Dec 3, 2016 at 9:12AM   Health Care               Read More     Here's Why Nektar Therapeutics Jumped 23% Higher in March    Will Shire Be Bought Out?    Why AVEO Oncology Jumped Higher Today    Here's Why AbbVie Inc. Fell 18.3% in March    Why MannKind Corporation Stock Sank Last Month                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        3 States That May Legalize Medical Marijuana Next (1 Is a Big Surprise) @themotleyfool #stocks                               SUBSCRIBE NOW to get home delivery News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Icon Humidity Precip. Winds Open settings Settings Enter City Name Cancel Set Close settings Full Forecast Crosswords Video Subscribe Newsletters Stocks Apps Classifieds Best-Selling Books Corrections Interactives News tips Photo galleries Newsstand Scores Podcasts Investigations Washington Policing the USA Moonlighting VRtually There Job Network More News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Crosswords Video Subscribe Newsletters Stocks Apps Classifieds Best-Selling Books Corrections Interactives News tips Photo galleries Newsstand Scores Podcasts Investigations Washington Policing the USA Moonlighting VRtually There Job Network Search Firefly Hi Already a subscriber? Sign In Subscribe to USA TODAY Subscribe Now Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login? Activate your digital access. Manage your account settings. My Account Support Log Out Get the news Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Email Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Predicting which states will be next to legalize marijuana requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions. Post to Facebook Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Predicting which states will be next to legalize marijuana requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions.  Check out this story on USATODAY.com: https://usat.ly/2ig6lY3 Cancel Send Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 24 Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Pot initiatives: Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana Samuel Stebbins, Grant Suneson and John Harrington, 24/7 Wall Street Published 9:40 a.m. ET Nov. 14, 2017 | Updated 11:51 a.m. ET Jan. 5, 2018 CLOSE There's more support than ever for marijuana legalization and that includes Republicans. Time Cannabis buds next to a judge's gavel. (Photo: Getty Images) CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 24 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Support for legalizing marijuana for recreational use has been growing in recent years in the United States. However, the momentum for greater recreational use of the drug may have been slowed by the decision Thursday by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions to rescind several Obama-era orders that discouraged enforcement of federal marijuana laws in states that had legalized the substance. In a memo sent to U.S. attorneys, Sessions said “prosecutors should follow the well-established principles that govern all federal prosecutions. These principles require federal prosecutors deciding which cases to prosecute to weigh all relevant considerations of the crime, the deterrent effect of criminal prosecution, and the cumulative impact of particular crimes on the community.” Sessions action potentially allows the federal government to crack down on the burgeoning pot industry. Sessions, who considers marijuana a dangerous substance, said prosecutors should use their discretion — factoring in the Justice Department’s limited resources, the seriousness of the crime, and the deterrent effect that they could impose — in considering if charges were appropriate. The decision by the attorney general comes at a time when a record high 64% of Americans support legalizing marijuana for recreational use, according to a 2017 Gallup Poll. Support for legalization is rooted in changing perceptions of the drug’s potential harm, as well as the prospect of hundreds of millions of dollars in marijuana sales and excise tax revenue for state governments. Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Predicting the next 15 states to legalize marijuana  Fullscreen Post to Facebook Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. A record high 64% of Americans support legalizing marijuana for recreational use, according to a 2017 Gallup Poll. Support for legalization is rooted in changing perceptions of the drug's potential harm, as well as the prospect of hundreds of millions of dollars in marijuana sales and excise tax revenue for state governments. Ed Andrieski, AP Fullscreen 1. Arizona
Possession decriminalized: No
Amount decriminalized: N/A
Max. fine for less than 2 lbs.: $150,000
Annual adult usage: 12.7% (19th highest) Matt York, AP Fullscreen 2. Arkansas
Possession decriminalized: No
Amount decriminalized: N/A
Max. fine for less than 4 oz.: $2,500
Annual adult usage: 11.3% (16th lowest) Danny Johnston, AP Fullscreen 3. Connecticut
Possession decriminalized: Yes
Amount decriminalized: Less than 1/2 oz
Max. fine for less than 1/2 oz: $150
Annual adult usage: 15.4% (10th highest) AP Fullscreen 4. DelawarePossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 1 oz. or lessMax. fine for 1 oz. or less: $100Annual adult usage: 12.7% (20th highest) Dee Marvin, AP Fullscreen 5. FloridaPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for 20 g. or less: $1,000Annual adult usage: 12.1% (24th lowest) Phil Sears, AP Fullscreen 6. IllinoisPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 10 g. or lessMax. fine for 10 g. or less: $200Annual adult usage: 12.3% (24th highest) Seth Perlman, AP Fullscreen 7. MarylandPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: Less than 10 g.Max. fine for less than 10 g.: $100Annual adult usage: 14.8% (15th highest) Patrick Semansky, AP Fullscreen 8. MichiganPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for any amount: $2,000Annual adult usage: 15.0% (13th highest) Carlos Osorio, AP Fullscreen 9. MinnesotaPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 42.5 g. or lessMax. fine for 42.5 g. or less: $200 Jim Mone, AP Fullscreen 10. MontanaPossession decriminalized: NoAmount decriminalized: N/AMax. fine for 60 g, or less: $500Annual adult usage: 15.1% (11th highest) Lisa Kunkel, AP Fullscreen 11. New HampshirePossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 3/4 oz. or lessMax. fine for 3/4 oz. or less: $100Annual adult usage:Ê17.1% (9th highest) Joel Page, AP Fullscreen 12. New YorkPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 25 g. or lessMax. fine for 25 g. or less: $100Annual adult usage: 15.0% (14th highest) Mike Groll, AP Fullscreen 13. OhioPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: Less than 100 g.Max. fine for less than 100 g.: $150Annual adult usage: 12.0% (21st lowest) Jay LaPrete, AP Fullscreen 14. Rhode Island
Possession decriminalized: Yes
Amount decriminalized: Less than 1 oz.
Max. fine for less than 1 oz.: $150
Annual adult usage: 18.7% (6th highest) Steven Senne, AP Fullscreen 15. VermontPossession decriminalized: YesAmount decriminalized: 1 oz. or lessMax. fine for 1 oz. or less: $200Annual adult usage: 20.6% (3rd highest) Toby Talbot, AP Fullscreen Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries: Replay 1 of 16 2 of 16 3 of 16 4 of 16 5 of 16 6 of 16 7 of 16 8 of 16 9 of 16 10 of 16 11 of 16 12 of 16 13 of 16 14 of 16 15 of 16 16 of 16 Autoplay Show Thumbnails Show Captions Last Slide Next Slide The growing acceptance of marijuana among Americans has also been reflected in the ballot box. Currently, eight states and Washington D.C. have legalized recreational marijuana. Pro-pot initiatives passed in eight of the nine states in which they made it to the ballot in November 2016. Voters in Arkansas, Florida, Montana and North Dakota approved or expanded medical marijuana laws in their states. In Maine, Massachusetts, Nevada and California, voters approved recreational pot. Only Arizona’s push for full legalization failed. All four states that legalized recreational marijuana in 2016 made 24/7 Wall St.’s list of the next states to legalize pot that same year. Despite widespread acceptance of the drug, only about 21% of the U.S. population live in states or districts that have legalized recreational pot. In all likelihood, the share will only grow in the coming years. Though every state to legalize pot so far has done so through ballot initiatives, going forward, states have a variety of options for making pot legal. Predicting which states will be next to legalize requires weighing a range of legal circumstances and cultural conditions. 24/7 Wall St. reviewed marijuana usage rates, existing marijuana laws, and legislative processes in each state to identify the states most likely to legalize pot next. 1. Arizona Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for less than 2 lbs.: $150,000 Annual adult usage: 12.7% (19th highest) In ballot initiative states, citizens can vote directly on proposed laws. As a result, because politicians who may fear political fallout are out of the equation, states that allow ballot initiatives are much more likely to legalize recreational marijuana use than non-ballot initiative states. Arizona voters in November 2016 struck down Proposition 205, which would have allowed adults in the state to possess up to 1 ounce of marijuana and grow and harvest up to six plants, by a 52.2% to 47.8% margin. Despite the defeat for legalization proponents, other ballot initiative states that have struck down similar propositions in the past — like neighboring California — ultimately legalized pot. Currently, state residents with dispensary cards suffering from a range of conditions, including PTSD, severe nausea, and cancer, can legally posses as much as 2.5 ounces of marijuana for medicinal use.  (Photo: GETTY IMAGES) 2. Arkansas Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for less than 4 oz.: $2,500 Annual adult usage: 11.3% (16th lowest) As a ballot initiative state, the likelihood of Arkansas legalizing recreational marijuana use is considerably higher than that of most other states. Voters in the state recently approved Issue 6 by a 53.2% to 46.8% margin, allowing the use of medical marijuana with doctor approval for the first time. The new law may be a sign of progress for proponents of legalization, as voters in the state struck down a similar proposition as recently as 2012. Still, the state has several potential hurdles to clear before full legalization is reality. Many voters in Arkansas may not be open to the idea of legalization, as just an estimated 11.3% of state adults 18 and older have used marijuana in the past year, a smaller share than in most states. Additionally, those caught in possession of any amount without doctor approval can face a misdemeanor, one year in jail, and a $2,500 fine. 3. Connecticut Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 1/2 oz Max. fine for less than 1/2 oz: $150 Annual adult usage: 15.4% (10th highest) As is the case in much of the country, Connecticut residents’ attitudes towards pot have shifted considerably in recent years. Some 39.1% of state adults 26 and older perceived great risk in monthly marijuana use in 2002. The share has since fallen to 28.8% of adults. Additionally, Connecticut’s medical marijuana program, which has been in effect since June 2012, was strengthened in 2016. That year, legislators added several new conditions to the list of those approved for medical marijuana, and the state’s Department of Consumer Protection greenlighted three new dispensaries. Even more recently, Democratic lawmakers in the state included a plan to tax and regulate marijuana in their 2017 budget proposal. Connecticut is one several states to have decriminalized marijuana possession. First time offenders caught with less half an ounce face no more than a $150 fine. For repeat offenders, fines can be as high as $500, but still, possession of a small amount carries no criminal charges. More: These are the 5 worst cities for Black Americans More: Least livable: 50 worst cities to live in More: Most livable: America’s 50 best cities to live in 4. Delaware Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 1 oz. or less Max. fine for 1 oz. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 12.7% (20th highest) Delaware may very well be the next state to legalize recreational marijuana use, and the first in the country to do so without a ballot initiative. State lawmakers have sponsored House Bill 110, which, if passed, would regulate and tax marijuana in a similar way to alcohol. The bill made it past the Revenue and Finance Committee and will be considered by the state legislature in January 2018. Marijuana legalization appears to have the support of voters in the state. A 2016 poll conducted by the University of Delaware found that 61% of state residents support legalization. Changing attitudes have been a long time in the making. In 2002, 41.4% of state residents 26 and older perceived great risk from monthly marijuana use. As of 2014, only 28.9% of state adults see monthly pot use as very risky. 5. Florida Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for 20 g. or less: $1,000 Annual adult usage: 12.1% (24th lowest) So far, every state to have legalized recreational marijuana use did so through a voter proposed ballot initiative. In November 2016, Sunshine State residents voted by a wide 71.3% to 28.7% margin to legalize medical marijuana use. Passage of the law, known as Amendment 2, means that patients suffering from a range of conditions, including Parkinson’s disease, PTSD, and glaucoma, can legally obtain and possess marijuana with a doctor’s approval. Despite the recent constitutional amendment that suggests growing acceptance of marijuana use in Florida, recreational users in the state still face serious legal consequences. Those caught with 20 grams or less of the drug face misdemeanor charges, up to a year in jail, and fines as high as $1,000. Still, as a ballot initiative state, legalization could happen much faster in Florida than in states that do not allow voter-sponsored ballot initiatives. 6. Illinois Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 10 g. or less Max. fine for 10 g. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 12.3% (24th highest) Few states seem as poised to legalize recreational marijuana use as Illinois. State lawmakers are currently considering legislation in Senate Bill 316 and House Bill 2353 that would allow adults of legal drinking age in the state to possess, cultivate, and purchase limited amounts of pot. If these bills pass, marijuana sales could add to state coffers an estimated $566 million in excise tax revenue per year and as much as $133 million in sales tax revenue annually. Currently, possession of certain amounts of marijuana for nonmedical purposes is decriminalized in Illinois. Those caught with 10 grams or less will not face more than a $200 fine. State residents with a range of conditions, including cancer, glaucoma, and Parkinson’s disease, can qualify for a medical cannabis card. Magnets for sale at the store in Nipton, Calif. highlight the town's ownership by cannabis company American Green, while in the background two visitors examine a rendering of the company's plans to expand the town.  (Photo: Trevor Hughes/USA TODAY) 7. Maryland Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 10 g. Max. fine for less than 10 g.: $100 Annual adult usage: 14.8% (15th highest) Support for legalizing marijuana for recreational use appears to be on the rise in Maryland, from 54% of residents in 2014 to 61% in 2016, according to a Washington Post-University of Maryland poll. More importantly, 64% of likely voters support legalizing pot. The state has already taken a more relaxed attitude toward marijuana. Maryland allows medical marijuana use, it decriminalized possession of under 10 grams, and capped the fine for having a small amount at $100. But state legislators are still hesitant to institute full legalization. A recent legalization bill fell short of passing. The state legislature will not meet again until 2018. 8. Michigan Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for any amount: $2,000 Annual adult usage: 15.0% (13th highest) Some proponents of pot legalization in Michigan are working to gather the 252,523 petition signatures necessary to include a proposal — to tax and regulate marijuana like alcohol — on the November 2018 ballot. If enough signatures are gathered, and if voters approve the measure, adults in Michigan will be able to possess up to 2.5 ounces and cultivate as many as 12 marijuana plants. If passed, Michigan would also join the ranks of a growing number of states to have legalized recreational marijuana through ballot initiatives. Voters in Michigan legalized medical marijuana for a range of conditions in 2008, also through a ballot initiative. Currently, Michigan residents without a medical card can face a $2,000 fine and jail time for possessing small amounts of marijuana. 9. Minnesota Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 42.5 g. or less Max. fine for 42.5 g. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 12.6% (21st highest) Since Minnesota does not have ballot initiatives, marijuana legalization may face more of an uphill battle there than in many other states on this list. So some pro-pot lawmakers in the state introduced bills that would have allowed Minnesota voters to decide whether to amend the constitution to include marijuana as a right. That measure failed, but attitudes towards pot are shifting in the Land of 10,000 Lakes. Current Gov. Mark Dayton opposes legalization, even though he is part of the often pot-friendly Democratic party. However, Dayton is not seeking reelection in 2018, and most Democratic gubernatorial candidates announced they support marijuana legalization. CLOSE Studies suggest that marijuana has gotten stronger over the years. Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more. Buzz60 10. Montana Possession decriminalized: No Amount decriminalized: N/A Max. fine for 60 g, or less: $500 Annual adult usage: 15.1% (11th highest) Montana has had a long and checkered history with marijuana laws. First approved for medical use in a 2004 ballot initiative, state lawmakers voted to repeal the measure seven years later, only to be blocked by a veto from the governor. Throughout 2011, lawmakers in Montana fought to impose stricter regulations on the state’s marijuana medical program. The following year, Constitutional Initiative 110, which proposed an all out legalization, failed to garner enough signatures to make it to the ballot. A similar initiative failed to make it to the ballot box as recently as 2016. Still, that same year, Montana voters passed the Medical Marijuana Initiative which loosened some restrictions in existing medical marijuana laws. As is the case nationwide, Montana residents seem to become more accepting of marijuana use. An estimated 36.2% of adults 26 and older in the state perceived great risk from monthly marijuana use in 2002. As of 2014, only 26.6% of the same age group saw monthly marijuana use as inherently harmful. 11. New Hampshire Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 3/4 oz. or less Max. fine for 3/4 oz. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 17.1% (9th highest) New Hampshire is catching up with many other states heading towards legalizing marijuana for recreational purposes. The state decriminalized marijuana possession up to three quarters of an ounce in September 2017. Some 17.1% of adults in the state used marijuana in the past year, the ninth-highest share of all states. The relatively high share of pot users could be part of the reason why legalization is so popular in the Granite State. A University of New Hampshire poll found 68% of residents support legalizing marijuana for recreational use. That is more support than any single elected official in the state has. 12. New York Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 25 g. or less Max. fine for 25 g. or less: $100 Annual adult usage: 15.0% (14th highest) Much of the hopes for recreational marijuana legalization in New York actually rest with Massachusetts. Advocates believe that New York state officials could be spurred to act if legalization works well in the neighboring state, which will begin selling recreational pot in July 2018. New York already has a medical marijuana program and a significant amount of users overall. The state is home to more than 2.3 million adults who used pot in the past year. Pot smokers caught with the drug in the Empire State have little to fear in the way of legal repercussions. First time offenders caught with 25 grams or less face a $100 fine, while second time offenders are slapped with a $200 fine. 13. Ohio Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 100 g. Max. fine for less than 100 g.: $150 Annual adult usage: 12.0% (21st lowest) Ohio’s attempt to legalize recreational marijuana in 2015 faltered, though the problem may not have been pot itself. Some voters were concerned the ballot initiative would have created an oligopoly, limiting pot profits to just a handful of companies sponsoring the legislation. Even the prominent pro-pot advocacy group Marijuana Policy Project did not endorse the bill. However, since voters can change state law via ballot initiatives, Ohio could be poised for another shot at legalization. Ohio is in the midst of implementing its medical marijuana program. Currently, recreational users in the state caught with any amount less than 100 grams only face a $150 fine and no jail time. 14. Rhode Island Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: Less than 1 oz. Max. fine for less than 1 oz.: $150 Annual adult usage: 18.7% (6th highest) Rhode Island lawmakers are working to draft a bill that would legalize marijuana for personal use. They are aiming to introduce the bill in the first legislative session of 2018. If successful, the state could be the first to pass a recreational marijuana law through the state legislature, as all other states that have legalized marijuana use did so through ballot initiatives. The bill had much support in the Rhode Island legislature, with about a third of the House of Representatives co-sponsoring the bill. Some 18.7% of Rhode Island adults used pot in the past year, more than 5 percentage points ahead of the national share of adult pot users. High usage rates can often suggest a more tolerant cultural stance towards pot. CLOSE New numbers reveal a shocking misconception: about one-third of teens surveyed think it's legal to drive under the influence of marijuana. The truth: it's not legal and it's dangerous! USA TODAY 15. Vermont Possession decriminalized: Yes Amount decriminalized: 1 oz. or less Max. fine for 1 oz. or less: $200 Annual adult usage: 20.6% (3rd highest) Vermont was well on its way to having the first state legislature to pass a law allowing people 21 and over to use marijuana for recreational purposes. It was only one signature away, but Gov. Phil Scott vetoed the bill, saying he wanted to further study the effects pot has on public safety and state tax revenue. Scott said he would be willing to sign a recreational pot bill into law with a few tweaks. It is not a surprise that politicians in Vermont would be on board with marijuana legalization given how popular it is in the state. Some 15% of Vermont adults used marijuana in the past month, and more than 20% used it in the past year. Those figures were both in the top three among states. Findings and methodology Marijuana legalization in any given state will ultimately reflect the will of the majority of its voters. Though just 13.1% of American adults smoked marijuana at least once in the past year, a far larger and growing share sees nothing wrong with marijuana use. Over the decade beginning in 2004, the share of Americans age 26 and up who believe that monthly marijuana use is inherently risky fell from 43% to 29%. To identify the states most likely to legalize recreational marijuana use in the coming years, 24/7 Wall St. reviewed existing marijuana laws and usage rates in every state. Only states where medical marijuana use is legal were considered. For more on how the list was generated, click here. 24/7 Wall Street is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary. Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY. CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 24 COMMENT EMAIL MORE Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ig6lY3 Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  California Proposition 19 (2010)  Marijuana Dispensaries  Growing Cannabis  Cannabis in the United States of America  Cannabis Legalization  Medical Cannabis  Cannabis What are the chances of marijuana being legalized in the next 10 years? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers   Dennis Park , Moverde & Co Answered Mar 27, 2012 The chances are better now than at any other time in the last 70 years. Growing pressure from within the US and pressure from other countries legalizing medical cannabis. There is also the growing noise more recently from Central American countries who suffer deaths due to this failed drug war while most deaths associated with the drug war in the US is due to DEA/Federal 'busts'. The larger reason as to why it is likely that some form of legalization will occur is due to the changing voting block. Millennials are more inclined to seek their own information than accept the top-down paradigm of information transfer. This makes it more difficult to 'control' information and their Reefer Madness is less effective. As more legitimate (un-government sanctioned) research bodies continue to explore the effects of cannabinoids on the body and how it affects cancer and HIV, it will become unstoppable. Let's not forget that the Federal Government takes the stance of no medical value but they have a Federal Medical Cannabis Program started over a decade ago which had a dozen or so members. Only about 3 are left. One is Irv Rosenfeld. He gets 300 cannabis cigarettes send each month by the Federal Government for medical reasons.  The federal government also has a patent on a cannabinoid for medical reasons, further weakening the case against cannabis. But the main thrust will come from the millennials and the retiring Baby Boomer generation and their votes.  But that will still take the people to make their voices heard by making their choice felt. 4.7k Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below What's next for marijuana legalization? As of 2/19/2017? Will medical marijuana be legal on the federal level in the next 10 years? Should marijuana be legalised? After marijuana, what drug might be legalized next in the United States? What are the chances of any states legalizing recreational marijuana before the next election? Ask New Question   Barb Kueber , I've used cannabis as my primary medicine since 1999 Answered Jul 19, 2014 · Author has 565 answers and 577.8k answer views I wouldn't be surprised if it was legalized in Canada in 2015.  Health Canada has made such a cluster with their Medical Marijuana Access Schemes.  Schemes is the right word for them alright.  Anyway, it is so ridiculous and the current revision of the scheme has again been ruled to be unconstitutional so, it really is a total joke and leaves some people allowed to grow and the poorest forced to go without.  They got a lot of licensed users to move to a grower, who has no medicine!!, understand some people are really sick and they may not be willing to break the law and go to a Compassion Club or Dispensary which are 100% illegal,  their employees could face 5 years in jail according to the laws.  Canada had a commission report done 30 years ago, over 1000 pages told of the horrors of alcohol and cigarettes so they buried it of course LeDain report on drugs divides cabinet 635 Views   Sreeram Duraiswamy Answered Mar 30, 2014 Considering the enormous tax returns acheived by the US govenment, there is a probability that it will be leagalized in more states. If you take a closer look, during the alcohol prohibition era (1920-1933) there were people turning millionaires illegally producing, selling and transporting, it was a golden era, as organized crimes recieved a major boost from this act. As and when the govt started legalizing alcohol it came to a balance. It wouldn't be a surprise if it's getting leagalized in other countries too. 741 Views · View Upvoters   Jeffrey Hoffman , Attorney Answered Feb 7, 2013 · Author has 127 answers and 73.1k answer views On Nov 6 2012, Colorado voters approved Amendment 64 by a vote of 55% to 45%, and Washington voters approved Initiative 502 by a vote of 56% to 44%. Those measures, with various restrictions, legalized marijuana and create a regulatory framework for its cultivation and sale within those states. So, with the benefit of hindsight, the chances were 100%. The jury is still out on what the feds are going to do about this. 1k Views · View Upvoters   Camille McCutcheon , The Arizona Dispensary Answered Feb 3, 2012 According to The Arizona Dispensary, http://www.thearizonadispensary.... , in the US we already have 17 states where the use of medical cannabis is legal.  Six additional states are voting on medical marijuana laws in 2012.  Four more states have failed MMJ ballot measures. If all of these states were to legalize medical pot use, we would have over half the states in favor of medical cannabis legislation.  Some advocates like the ASA, http://www.safeaccessnow.org/sec... , think would this would tip the scales in their favor and the federal government would be forced to legalize or at the very least regulate the medical marijuana industry 1.4k Views   Sahand Milaninia Answered Jan 29, 2012 It's already on the ballot to be voted on in November here in Washington State, and gallop pols show well over the majority support it here too. Only issue is that the Feds will most likely silence our voices and shut it down if the vote passes, still though it shows some hope for it being legalized in the future, especially in more liberal places like Washington. 733 Views   Chaz Carlson , Tech Noir Answered Apr 3, 2012 · Author has 69 answers and 99.3k answer views 51% of people want it decriminalized or legalized in the United States, I think we'll at least see a few states go fully legalized and put heavy pressure on the federal government to follow suit. 941 Views Related Questions When will marijuana be legalized in the United States. Will it be years, months? Will marijuana be legal in America? Should marijuana be legalized in the United States? Are marijuana edibles legal? Should marijuana be legalized in the USA? Should marijuana be made legal in India? What state will likely be the next to legalize marijuana? How many more years till India legalizes marijuana? What year will NC Winterville legalize marijuana? Is legal marijuana at risk under Trump? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What's next for marijuana legalization? As of 2/19/2017? Will medical marijuana be legal on the federal level in the next 10 years? Should marijuana be legalised? After marijuana, what drug might be legalized next in the United States? What are the chances of any states legalizing recreational marijuana before the next election? When will marijuana be legalized in the United States. Will it be years, months? Will marijuana be legal in America? Should marijuana be legalized in the United States? Are marijuana edibles legal? Should marijuana be legalized in the USA? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact          POLITICO Magazine    Menu   Our Latest  Search  Email Signup  politico.com     Google Plus   Facebook   Twitter              Search     Close         The Friday Cover  The Friday Cover is POLITICO Magazine's email of the week's best, delivered to your inbox every Friday morning.                Email    Sign Up    By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.                                                   David McNew/Getty Images      Law And Order   Did Jeff Sessions Just Increase the Odds Congress Will Make Marijuana Legal?   The attorney general has created intolerable uncertainty for a growing industry that is now demanding legal protections from Congress. And lawmakers are listening.      By JAMES HIGDON  January 06, 2018              Facebook       Twitter       Google +         Email       Comment       Print             When Jeff Sessions announced Thursday morning he had removed the barrier that had held back federal prosecutors from pursuing marijuana cases in states that had made pot legal, he delivered on something he had all but promised when he was nominated as attorney general. Most of the marijuana world saw it coming, but they freaked out anyway.  A fund of marijuana-based stocks dropped more than 9 percent in value and, as a sign of how mainstream marijuana has become, Sessions’ decision to repeal the Cole memo, an Obama-era protection for states that have legalized marijuana, even affected the stock price of Scotts Miracle-Gro Company, which dropped more than 5 percent . Business leaders in an industry that was worth $7.9 billion in 2017, called Sessions’ action revoking “outrageous” and “economically stupid.” Story Continued Below        Capitol Hill screamed just as loudly. And it wasn’t just the Democratic members of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus. It was Republican senators, too. Cory Gardner of Colorado took the Senate floor to issue an ultimatum to Sessions: “I will be putting a hold on every single nomination from the Department of Justice until Attorney General Jeff Sessions lives up to the commitment he made to me in my pre-confirmation meeting with him. The conversation we had that was specifically about this issue of states’ rights in Colorado. Until he lives up to that commitment, I’ll be holding up all nominations of the Department of Justice,” Gardner said. “The people of Colorado deserve answers. The people of Colorado deserve to be respected.” Gardner is no fringe Republican; he’s the chair of the NRSC.  Even members who had been silent on the issue in the past vowed to squeeze the Department of Justice’s budget. Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat from New Hampshire, reminding reporters she’s the lead Democrat on the Department of Justice funding subcommittee, tweeted: “I’ll work to ensure that resources are devoted to opioid response NOT foolish policy of interfering with legal marijuana production.” Most of the Congressional leadership was silent on this issue, but not House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who issued a blistering statement against Sessions, saying that she would push for an amendment in the new spending bill to protect states that had legalized not just medical marijuana but recreational use too, a move that could make ongoing budget negotiations much more tense.  Thursday may well turn out to be a pivotal moment in the marijuana industry’s evolution as a political force. Nearly 70 percent of Americans believe in some form of legalized marijuana, but does the nascent industry have the sway to rewrite nearly 50 years of federal drug policy? Or will it remain a splintered coalition of investors, libertarians, concerned parents of sick kids, cancer sufferers, and traumatized veterans, who have the numbers but not the concentrated lobbying effort necessary to once and for all remove marijuana from the crosshairs of federal drug enforcement?  “There’s a lot of [legislators] trying to have it both ways who are now going to have to make up their mind,” said Tick Segerblom, the Nevada state senator who is considered the father of the state’s legalization movement. “Are they going to go with what the voters of their state support, or are they going to join Sessions and crack down and try to re-instate prohibition?”  Right now, the answer seems to be the former. Sessions’ antipathy for a drug that has lost much of its stigma among a wide cross section of Americans has only galvanized disparate factions in Congress to protect an industry that is expected to generate $2.3 billion in state tax revenue by 2020.  Senator Pat Leahy of Vermont, who just a few weeks ago declined to comment to POLITICO Magazine about whether he would work to maintain protections for medical marijuana in the 2018 omnibus spending package, tweeted on Thursday, “I'm now fighting to include my amdt in the final omnibus Approps bill so we can protect patients and law-abiding businesses.”  Those law-abiding businesses are now fully engaged in this matter, and they aren’t just going to roll over and let Jeff Sessions shut them down.  “I expect any actions he and the Justice Department take against the industry will be met with significant pushback from states that are benefiting greatly from an economic and quality of life standpoint,” said Jeffrey Zucker, president of Green Lion Partners, a Denver firm that promotes marijuana businesses. “The cannabis industry will continue on regardless of this decision, and in the long run this should only be a roadblock.”  Leslie Bocskor, president of Electrum Partners, an asset-backed finance company invested in the marijuana market, expressed his displeasure with a wry dig at Sessions’ motives: “It is almost as if the rally in publicly traded stocks in the legal cannabis sector was too much for the AG to bear.”  ***   The Cole memo was never intended to be a permanent fix to the problem posed by the conflict between states that chose to legalize marijuana and existing federal prohibitions. Written by Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole in 2013, the memo gave the nation’s 93 U.S. Attorneys broad latitude to exercise prosecutorial discretion in states where marijuana had been legalized. (Mr. Cole, now in private practice, declined a request for comment for this story.) His memo was interpreted as a virtual hands-off rule, allowing medical and recreational marijuana programs to spread across the country at an unprecedented rate. Flimsy though it was, the Cole Memo nevertheless provided a measure of security for dispensary owners, growers and consumers and allowed investors to proceed with some confidence that their money was not going to be seized in a DEA sting.  The best protection that Congress had been able to provide was the Rohrabacher-Farr amendment, which was passed in 2014 attached to an appropriations bill. It barred the DOJ from spending funds to interfere with the implementation of medical marijuana laws. But since then, a total of eight states have now passed full recreational use laws, mostly recently California, whose law took effect January 1. Rohrabacher-Farr (now known as Rohrabacher-Blumenauer, in honor of Democratic Representative Earl Blumenauer of Oregon, who co-sponsored the amendment) expire on January 19 if it is not renewed and does nothing to help recreationally legal states, hence the eagerness of marijuana advocates to shore up the industry’s legal standing with new legislation and Pelosi’s stated desire to bake in those protections in the budget that’s currently being negotiated.  The fact that marijuana has now risen to the height of top-tier budget negotiations is a sign that the pro-marijuana coalition is no longer merely a menagerie of loud-mouth hippies, stoners, and felons, as the pro-pot crowd has been characterized in the past. The community of Americans who now rely on legal medical marijuana, estimated to be 2.6 million people in 2016 , includes a variety of mainstream constituency groups like veterans, senior citizens, cancer survivors, and parents of epileptic children. The American Legion, a conservative veterans organization by any measure, has voted twice in favor of resolutions to expand research and safe access for its members.  “The American Legion has been a leading advocate for the removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act to enable greater research into the medical efficacy of the drug to treat ailments that impact veterans such as PTSD and chronic pain,” Joe Plenzler, Director of Media Relations for The American Legion, told POLITICO Magazine — which means Jeff Sessions just crossed the nation’s largest wartime veterans service organization.  By the end of the day on Thursday, in a conference call of five members of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, lawmakers from four of the eight states that have approved recreational marijuana railed about Sessions’ unconstitutional assault on the rights of their states to decide their own affairs. On that call, California Republican Dana Rohrabacher said that the move by Sessions to strike a blow against marijuana has had the inverse effect of raising the attention from what had previously been a states’ issue but has now become a national priority. “It’s a big plus for our efforts that the federal government is now aware that our constituents have been alerted,” Rohrabacher said. "We can be confident we can win this fight, because this is a freedom issue.”  On the same call, California Democrat Barbara Lee made it clear that she and her constituents were not going to accept Sessions’ move without a fight. “As a person of color, let me just say that the War on Drugs has been a failure… We’ve lost families, we’ve lost a generation. So this affects people of color in a big way, so we’re not going to allow them to turn back the clock. In our district, we’re going to fight this every step of the way,” the Congresswoman said.  Even if Leahy protects medical marijuana programs by reauthorizing the Rohrabacher-Farr amendment in the upcoming omnibus spending bill in the conference committee, the Congressional Cannabis Caucus has less than a year to make those protections permanent. The means to do that is H.R. 1227, the Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act, sponsored by Representative Thomas Garrett, a Republican from Virginia. The bill, now with 15 cosponsors, would remove marijuana from Schedule 1 and eliminate federal penalties for anyone engaged in state-legal marijuana activity. All Congress has to do is pass it.  “We’ve got to act,” Rohrabacher said on the Thursday phone call. “We can’t take it for granted, and now it’s going to be a priority for us to accomplish.”  As of late Friday, POLITICO Magazine could not find a single member of Congress who had issued a statement in support of Sessions’ actions. In the end, this is a self-inflicted pot crisis that could prove to be a critical test of Trump’s ability to maintain his base.  “There’s a lot of old white men who are marijuana users, and the marijuana is keeping them alive,” Segerblom said from his cell phone while driving around Las Vegas. “Trump is going to have fewer to vote for him if he doesn’t keep marijuana legal.”   Share on Facebook  Share on Twitter      James Higdon is a freelance writer based in Louisville and author of The Cornbread Mafia: A Homegrown Syndicate’s Code of Silence and the Biggest Marijuana Bust in American History. He can be reached at @jimhigdon. Full disclosure: His father, Jimmy Higdon, is a Republican state senator in the Kentucky state legislature.      This article tagged under:    Congress   White House   Justice Department   Jeff Sessions   Marijuana   Donald Trump   Law And Order   Donald Trump Presidency       Show Comments       More from POLITICO Magazine            Off Message  Inside Puerto Rico’s Plan to Influence the Midterm Elections     By Edward-Isaac Dovere               Letter From Boston  How John Kelly’s Boston Neighborhood Led Him to Trump’s Side     By Ben Strauss               Law And Order  The FBI Raids on Trump’s Attorney Are Bad News for Trump     By Norman Eisen , Noah Bookbinder and Conor Shaw                   The Friday Cover            Read more                                                          More on Magazine         Our Latest   Weekly Newsletter   Print Archive   Web Archive   About Us   Write for Us   FAQ      POLITICO Magazine Links     News    POLITICO Home   Magazine   Election Results   Congress   State of the Union 2018   Video   Podcasts   POLITICO Pro   POLITICO Florida   POLITICO New Jersey   POLITICO New York   POLITICO Live     Blogs, Columns & Cartoons    Josh Gerstein   Rich Lowry   Jack Shafer   Matt Wuerker   Cartoon Carousel     Newsletters    Playbook   Playbook Power Briefing   Huddle   The Friday Cover   Morning Media   Influence   Morning Agriculture   Morning Cybersecurity   Morning Defense   Morning Education   Morning eHealth   Morning Energy   Morning Money   Morning Score   Morning Shift   Morning Tax   Morning Transportation   Morning Tech   Morning Trade   Pulse   Prescription Pulse     Policy    Agriculture   Cybersecurity   Defense   Education   eHealth   Employment & Immigration   Energy & Environment   Finance & Tax   Health Care   Technology   Trade   Transportation & Infrastructure     More Info    About Us   Advertising   Breaking News Alerts   Careers   Credit Card Payments   Digital Edition   FAQ   Feedback     Headlines   Photos   POWERJobs   Press   Print Subscriptions   RSS   Site Map         © 2018 POLITICO LLC    Terms of Service   Privacy Policy                                                                                Follow @RollingStone                           Pot in 2018: What to Expect     News  Video  Music  Politics  TV  Movies  Video Games  RS Country  RS Hip-Hop    More   News  Video  Music  Politics  TV  Movies  Video Games  RS Country  RS Hip-Hop  Lists  Culture  Galleries  Sports  Interviews  Long Reads  Artists  Ram Report  Album Reviews  50 Years of Music & Style  Movie Reviews  American Beauty  Live Reviews  Coverwall  Podcasts  50th Anniversary  Subscribe  The Photo Issue  Rolling Stone Newsletter  Glixel Newsletter                Trending       The Oral History of 'The Dinner Party,' the Best...         Rob Sheffield on Why the Latest Fleetwood Mac Breakup Is...         Fleetwood Mac Fires Lindsey Buckingham         Inside Michael Cohen's New York Hotel on the Day of the...          Pot in 2018: What to Expect  From vape clubs to legalization to how we talk about weed, our predictions for the next year in cannabis         Despite having Jeff Sessions as attorney general, the cannabis industry has advanced a lot over the past year – and will only get bigger. Credit: Jason Henry/The New York Times/Redux       By Amanda Chicago Lewis   December 29, 2017                         More News  2017: The Year Pot Policy Stood Still as Opioids Ravaged the Nation  Can Legal Pot Make You Rich?  Medical Pot Is Our Best Hope to Fight the Opioid Epidemic  Is Supporting Legal Pot Becoming Politically Viable in D.C.?  Pot Prisoners: Meet Five Victims of the War on Drugs  All Stories      When it comes to cannabis, 2017 was a much better year than anyone was expecting. Back in January, stoners and pot moguls alike were super paranoid about incoming Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his plans to shut down legal weed businesses from coast to coast. After a decade of steady progress on marijuana legalization – with about 90 percent of the country now supporting medical use and eight states having legalized recreational use – was the entire movement going to come crashing down? Related            The Official Guide to Being a Good Weed Citizen  From proper dosing to odor control to public-consumption boundaries, our guide to life out of the cannabis closet     A year later, almost no one believes there will be a federal crackdown on the entire cannabis industry. State-legal pot markets seem poised to match or exceed the value of black market pot by 2020. Sessions has admitted that marijuana is not as dangerous as heroin, and his tension with Trump is common knowledge. With the biggest state in the country about to begin recreational sales, and more and more politicians enviously eyeing the tax revenue coming out of places like Colorado and Oregon, legal pot is clearly here to stay. So what kinds of developments can we expect in the weed world for 2018? The first legal marijuana lounges Let&apos;s start with some great news: there are totally going to be legal marijuana lounges in the United States before the end of 2018! The biggest question is which city will get one open first: Las Vegas, West Hollywood, Boston or Denver. Considering nothing in Massachusetts is quite final yet, the smart money is on Denver, which actually passed a ballot initiative allowing licensed consumption spaces for marijuana back in 2016 but has had a fair amount of trouble implementing the law. You won&apos;t be allowed to smoke, you have to bring your own cannabis, and you have to sign a document saying you won&apos;t drive yourself home, but there&apos;s a good chance the country&apos;s first legal weed lounge will be in the capital of Colorado. Right now the front-runners for who might open first are a café called The Coffee Joint and a vape bar with an arcade called… wait for it… Vape and Play . If you&apos;re looking a pot hotspot where you can actually, you know, smoke pot, you might want to hold out for Vegas. "I think we&apos;ll have an ordinance voted on and approved by late March or early April," says former Nevada legalization campaign manager and current weed lobbyist Scot Rutledge. "I don&apos;t know that they&apos;ll be open by 4/20, but they should be open by the one year anniversary of recreational sales" – meaning by July. Sadly, the first Vegas pot lounges won&apos;t be on the Strip, which is technically not in the city of Las Vegas, but they&apos;ll be a short Lyft ride away and you&apos;ll be able to smoke. Huzzah! A few hours to the west, several cities in California have expressed interest in allowing cannabis social spaces, including West Hollywood, Palm Springs, San Francisco and Oakland. Advocate and aspiring lounge owner Jackie Subeck says the first ones will likely open their doors in West Hollywood this fall – including some spots where you will be allowed to buy pot on site and then smoke or vape it, just like a bar. "There&apos;s also going to be standalone lounges where you can&apos;t smoke or vape but you can buy infused products, like a bakery, or a spa with cannabis treatments," Subeck says. Confusion and a "bloodbath" in California Even though California will finally begin allowing the sale of recreational marijuana on January 1st, 2018, a lot of people are very nervous about how that is going to go. The state has had a largely unsupervised medical cannabis program in place since 1996 and now is trying to impose a strict regulatory regime on an enormous population of entrepreneurs and criminals, many of whom have never followed rules before.     Dispensaries have cropped up across California, but new regulations could mean the end for many of them.  Jim Wilson/The new York Times/Redux    "Look at what happened here for the last 20 years. It was anarchy," says Lord Jones founder and CEO Rob Rosenheck, whose posh weed-infused chocolates and lotions have become a celebrity favorite. "I think it will be a sloppy, chaotic, rough-and-tumble transition that will take 12 to 24 months to work itself out." Multiple people who I spoke with used the term "bloodbath" to describe the number of weed businesses they believe will fail. "You can&apos;t afford to suck," says Jeremy Plumb, director of production science at the marijuana growing company Prūf Cultivar and the co-founder of Farma, one of Portland, Oregon&apos;s most successful dispensaries. "There will be a massive oversupply in California, and the only people that will survive are either the ones that are super affluent and able to take every blow, or the ones that are really doing something with care and an unbelievable depth of skill." Of course, there is another option for California weed businesses that can&apos;t cut it in the legal market: stay underground and ship their products out of state. "The key word in 2018 is enforcement," says Jason Pinsky, the cannabis producer on Viceland&apos;s Bong Appetit and the chief cannabis advisor at marijuana delivery app Eaze. "In California, 90 percent of the brands that are out there are either going to disappear, or they&apos;re going to operate illegally. It&apos;s almost like the California weed industry is like an avalanche: to some degree, it&apos;s unstoppable. You&apos;re going to need to hire a lot more people in the policing business if you want to make it so all of these companies are going to stop doing business." The end of "indica" and "sativa" Pot snobs have been complaining about how meaningless the terms "indica" and "sativa" are for years, but I&apos;m starting to think that 2018 will finally be the year when this concept hits the public. According to stoner lore, indica weed produces a sedating "body" high and comes from a plant with shorter, fatter leaves, while sativa weed creates a more uplifting "mind" high and comes from a plant with longer, thinner leaves. But Plumb, the Portland dispensary co-founder, has been growing cannabis for decades, and finds these terms "absolutely offensive to any intelligent soul. There is no scientific basis where we can parse indica and sativa. You cannot connect morphology, a broad or narrow leaf, to the experience of a chemical phenotype. That&apos;s just a fucking massive disconnect." So what, pray tell, will replace this false classification? How will we describe marijuana strains in the future? Most likely we will begin focusing more on the entire chemical mix of what&apos;s in our weed – what&apos;s known as the cannabinoid and terpene profile. THC is the most famous cannabinoid, as it&apos;s the one that gets you high, but there are several other relevant compounds that can affect how a pot product makes you feel, including the physically relaxing CBD, the sleep-inducing myrcene and the lavender-smelling linalool. "If you think about weed as a vehicle, THC would be the gas pedal, and the terpenes are your steering wheel," says Pinsky, who has overseen quite a bit of public education regarding the variety of compounds found in cannabis on Bong Appetit .     Instead of indica and sativa, we'll have a wealth of terms to describe marijuana.  Ethan Miller/Getty Images    A few of the people I spoke with suggested that in 2018, more weed businesses will talk about the effects of various compound formulations in tinctures and vape pens, even if the indica/sativa distinction remains part of how dispensaries sell actual pot for another couple of years. Already, well-informed budtenders at high-end pot shops are helping customers make smarter choices that have nothing to do with the false dichotomy of body high versus mind high. "The tiniest bit of education results in consumers being able to access these distinctive chemotypes, which open the door to novel effects," Plumb says. Canada takes over the world In these times of tumult and prohibition, our kindly neighbors to the north are looking more and more savvy. While the federal government in the United States continues to insist that marijuana has absolutely no medical benefit, making commerce exceedingly difficult for anyone working with state-legal weed, Canada began the process of making pot available to all adults as soon as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took office in 2015. Now, with millions of marijuana dollars flowing through Canadian stock exchanges and recreational sales set to begin in 2018, the Canadian cannabis industry seems poised to dominate the globe. "These Canadian companies have access to money that no one in the U.S. has, and they&apos;re going to kill us," says Kris Krane, the president and co-founder of cannabis operations and consulting firm 4Front Ventures. "We&apos;re ceding the future of the industry to Canada. They&apos;re going to buy everybody."     Canada will begin recreational sale of cannabis in 2018.  Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press/AP    There is a truly mind-boggling amount of weed money flying around up there. The Wall Street Journal reported in September that about half of the trading activity on the Canadian Securities Exchange involved marijuana businesses. That&apos;s right: half of all of the trading on the entire exchange was related to pot. Meanwhile, down in the U.S., there&apos;s pretty much no chance in hell that a dispensary or grow operation could even get listed on the New York Stock Exchange. At the same time, Canadian pot companies are starting to acquire pieces of pot companies in other countries, as well as export their product to places like Germany, Brazil and Australia. Then again, not every investor is afraid of Canada. "Once the U.S. opens up, well, Canadians are nice people, but the U.S. will still dominate," says Evan Eneman, the managing director of Snoop Dogg&apos;s weed-focused venture capital fund, Casa Verde Capital. "The top line revenue of a licensed producer in Canada is probably still smaller than a single retail location in Los Angeles." Economic concerns replace philanthropy For a long time, marijuana legalization has been funded by progressive billionaires hoping to improve our criminal justice system – people like tech mogul Sean Parker, investor George Soros and the late Peter Lewis, who started Progressive Insurance. But heading into the elections 2018, fundraisers and political operatives say that the way we&apos;ve been legalizing is changing. Not only are we running out of states that allow the billionaire-funded ballot initiatives that have been the primary driver of legalization, but the billionaires themselves are starting to move on. "There&apos;s definitely a shift. The social justice folks who had funded legalization up to now seem to have moved on to other issues," says David Kaufman, a cannabis consultant who served as director of outreach and statewide partnerships for Proposition 64, the 2016 ballot initiative that legalized recreational use of marijuana in California. "The funders behind Proposition 64 are not necessarily going to be the folks that legalize in any other states." In the past few years, the political motivations behind marijuana legalization have become increasingly economic, whether it&apos;s politicians hoping to rake in the tax revenue or businessmen paying to lobby for an industry worth over $40 billion. In 2015, a group of investors – including former 98 Degrees lead singer Nick Lachey – attempted to legalize marijuana in Ohio such that all legal cannabis would need to be grown on property owned by the people who paid for the ballot initiative. While that initiative failed, it may have signaled the beginning of the end of legalizing weed with the goal of keeping people out of prison. In the past year, several prominent cannabis activists either retired or left the movement. Now, many are saying that legislative change will need to rely more on money from the pot industry itself, which could tip the nature of legalization toward helping the rich get richer, rather than accounting for the injustices of prohibition. Possible legalization in New Jersey will mean mounting pressure on New York New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is not about that weed life. He somehow still thinks that pot is a gateway drug , and wouldn&apos;t even allow the state&apos;s medical marijuana program to include actual bud. But by the end of 2018, he may be rethinking his position.     Phil Murphy will be the next governor of New Jersey – which will almost certainly mean cannabis legalization in the state.  Eduardo Munoz Alvarez/Getty Images    With recreational marijuana sales set to begin in Massachusetts over the summer and incoming New Jersey governor Phil Murphy poised to legalize pot as quickly as possible, there&apos;s a good chance that hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers will soon be doing a sort of reverse commute – driving or hopping a train out to the suburbs to pick up legal weed. Even Connecticut seems close to legalizing, with some predicting the state will turn in the next two years. "If Jersey and Connecticut both do it through the legislature, New York is surrounded. New York City is surrounded. You could take a PATH train from Manhattan and be in New Jersey in 15 minutes," says Krane, the president of 4Front Ventures. "When sales figures start rolling out from dispensaries in Hoboken and Jersey City, elected officials in New York City are going to throw a fit." Of course, most insiders say that there is no way New Jersey will begin recreational sales in 2018. The state could expand their existing medical program significantly, but it will likely take another year or two to write and implement a full legalization bill.   More News  2017: The Year Pot Policy Stood Still as Opioids Ravaged the Nation  Can Legal Pot Make You Rich?  Medical Pot Is Our Best Hope to Fight the Opioid Epidemic  Is Supporting Legal Pot Becoming Politically Viable in D.C.?  Pot Prisoners: Meet Five Victims of the War on Drugs  All Stories                        Trending   Ranked on a scale from 1 to 10, the trending score reflects the number of users reading a story in real time.  What is this?     The Oral History of 'The Dinner Party,' the...      9.8         Rob Sheffield on Why the Latest Fleetwood Mac...      9.7         Fleetwood Mac Fires Lindsey Buckingham      9.4         Inside Michael Cohen's New York Hotel on the...      7.8         Will Trump Really Fire Mueller? And 3 More...      7.3                       © Rolling Stone 2018 Digital Edition  Subscribe  Give a Gift  Coverwall  Contact  Privacy Policy  Your California Privacy Rights  Your Ad Choices  Terms of Use  Customer Service  Advertise                                   Skip to content          Topics     xml:space="preserve">                     Subscriber Services       Manage Subscription    Newsletters    EZPay    Delivery Issue    Subscriber Terms       Local       Earthquakes    Data Desk    California    Times OC    California Journal    Education    Readers' Representative Journal    Local +       L.A. Now    Politics       Essential Washington    Essential Politics       Business       Company Town    Autos    Michael Hiltzik    Consumer Confidential    Business +    Auto +       Nation       Nation Now       Entertainment       Arts & Culture    Hero Complex    Movies    Television    Music    Gossip    Envelope    TV Listings    Entertainment +       Opinion       Op-Ed    Opinion L.A.    Editorials    Readers React    Top of the Ticket    Endorsements       Food       Jonathan Gold    Daily Dish       Sports       Dodgers    USC    UCLA    MLB    Angels    Boxing & MMA    Ducks    Clippers    Chargers    Lakers    NBA    NFL    Olympics    Rams    Soccer    Sports Now    More Sports    High School    Kings       World       Afghanistan & Pakistan    Africa    Asia    Brazil    Europe    Mexico & The Americas    Middle East       Obituaries    Real Estate       Hot Property       California Living       Fashion    Health & Wellness    L.A. Affairs    Pets    Home & Garden    Books    Health +    Living +       Technology    Science       Science Now       Travel       Cruises    Mexico & Latin America    Theme Parks    Travel News & Deals    Travel +       Visuals       Graphics       Español    E-Newspaper    Extras       Games    Comics       Shop       Los Angeles Times Archives    Los Angeles Times Store    Los Angeles Times Photos    Our Dishonest President Book    Local Ads    Marketplace    Local Listings    Booking.com    Travel Offers       About       Press Releases    Giving                  Search     xml:space="preserve">                             Local    Politics    Sports    Entertainment    Opinion    Place an ad                             Advertisement            Nation    LA Times    What is the future of recreational marijuana in Trump's America?                  By Kurtis Lee      Mar 07, 2017  |  3:00 AM                                      Since the mid 2000s, proponents of marijuana legalization have succeeded in advancing their cause almost twice as often with laws passed in state legislatures than with ballot initiatives approved by voters.                         It's a movement charging ahead — for now.      Legalizing recreational marijuana is currently a priority in more than a dozen states as polls show overwhelming support and lawmakers see a way to bring in hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue. So far, eight states have legalized recreational cannabis.           Advertisement            But in recent weeks, the Trump administration has alarmed some pot supporters by warning states that have legalized recreational marijuana — California, Colorado and Oregon, among them — that federal law enforcement agents could soon come after them.         "I am definitely not a fan of expanded use of marijuana," U.S. Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions told reporters recently. (Last year, Sessions characterized marijuana as a "very real danger.")                        Here's a look at the current state of marijuana in America:         When did marijuana legalization begin?      The movement began more than 20 years ago.      In 1996, Californians overwhelmingly passed Proposition 215, which legalized marijuana for medicinal use. Since then, 27 other states and the District of Columbia have passed laws — a mix of voter-approved ballot measures and legislation — legalizing marijuana for medicinal use.      Scientific research has consistently shown that, for certain conditions, marijuana can be of medical value.                 Indeed, a report released in January by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine found that there is conclusive and substantial evidence that cannabis is effective for the treatment of chronic pain in adults, including nausea from chemotherapy and multiple sclerosis-related spasms.         Similar findings have shown up in medical reports over the years.      But wait, isn’t marijuana still illegal at the federal level?      Yes — kind of.      Under federal law, marijuana is viewed as a Schedule I drug — the highest classification, also including heroin and ecstasy.      "States, they can pass the laws they choose. I would just say, it does remain a violation of federal law to distribute marijuana throughout any place in the United States, whether a state legalizes it or not," Sessions told reporters.      But states that have legalized medicinal pot have some leeway.      In 2014, Congress passed a spending bill that included a provision that bars the Justice Department from using funds to go after state medical cannabis programs. The provision remains in place.      What about recreational marijuana?      It's not protected under that provision.           Advertisement            Since 2012, eight states — with Colorado and Washington state leading the way — have legalized the sale and possession of marijuana for anyone over the age of 21. One result is that the states are raking in big bucks.         Last year, Colorado brought in nearly $200 million in tax revenue off sales, while Washington state netted about $256 million.      What is the Trump administration planning to do?      It's unclear. Aside from saying states that legalized recreational pot could be targeted for federal action, the administration did not get into specifics, though it certainly suggested a sterner approach than the Obama administration.      White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer likened marijuana use to the opioid addiction epidemic and said the Justice Department would review how to proceed.      What did Trump the candidate say about legal marijuana?      Trump, who rarely faced questions about cannabis legalization on the campaign trial, made remarks that appear at odds with the recent comments from Sessions and Spicer.      "I think it's up to the states," Trump said in an interview with a Denver television station in August. "I'm a states person. I think it should be up to the states, absolutely."      So recreational legalization began under President Obama. What did he do?      To be blunt, mostly nothing.      Other than a few raids early on, the Obama administration viewed marijuana legalization mostly as a states' rights issue.      In a memo released in August 2013, then-Deputy Atty. Gen. James Cole noted that as long as state legalization efforts didn't undermine a range of federal priorities — such as keeping pot out of the hands of minors and preventing marijuana from being grown on public land — his office would exercise prosecutorial discretion.      In other words, the Justice Department directed law enforcement resources to other drug priorities, such as the growing use of opiate painkillers across the country.      Obama, in an exit interview with Rolling Stone in November, said he was not "somebody who believes that legalization is a panacea."      "But I do believe that treating this as a public-health issue, the same way we do with cigarettes or alcohol, is the much smarter way to deal with it," he said.      Are states that have legalized pot looking for help from the federal government?      Yes.      Because marijuana is illegal under federal law, banks are prohibited from taking money from dispensaries selling pot, forcing an all-cash business that creates persistent fears of violent crime among employees.      Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper has called on Congress to pass legislation that halts federal regulators from penalizing financial institutions for serving the marijuana industry.      He has support from members of Congress, such as Rep. Jared Polis (D-Colo.), who in February helped form the bipartisan Congressional Cannabis Caucus. The group aims to craft and pass federal legislation that helps states that have legalized marijuana.      "The results are in," Polis said in a statement last month. "A majority of Americans live in a state that has some form of legal access to cannabis, and the federal prohibition of marijuana has been a complete and utter failure."      Are more states looking to legalize?      Yes — many more.      So far this year, lawmakers in 17 states — Connecticut, Minnesota and Hawaii, to name a few — have introduced more than two dozen measures to legalize recreational pot for adults and tax its sales.      "Our focus is on revenue and bringing in cash to the state as legalization becomes more and more widespread," Mary Washington, a state delegate from Maryland who introduced a bill recently that would tax marijuana like alcohol, told The Times. "Why not get it done now? We're elected to do a job. More and more states are moving in this direction."      kurtis.lee@latimes.com      Twitter: @kurtisalee      ALSO      Here's what's driving lawmakers working to legalize recreational pot in 17 more states      Here's what Colorado's governor has to tell other states about legalizing marijuana                           Today's Headlines Newsletter   Weekdays     A digest of essential news, insight and analysis from L.A. Times editors.                      You are now following this newsletter. See all newsletters.              Advertisement         Be the first to comment  Hide Comments      Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by SolidOpinion.                          Advertisement                            Advertisement                                                   U.S. Edition U.S. Edition International Middle East 日本 한국 Pakistan Polska  Tue, Apr 10, 2018  Sign In  Subscribe    Search form  Search  U.S. World Business Tech & Science Culture Sports Health Opinion Green Rankings      Trump and Sessions Are At Odds Over Prosecuting Legal Marijuana States By  Jonathan Blanks   On 9/8/17 at 11:05 AM   Share         Opinion This article first appeared on the Cato Institute site. While candidate Donald Trump promised to protect medical marijuana on the campaign trail , President Trump’s Justice Department wants to be more aggressive against state-legal marijuana under the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). Attorney General Jeff Sessions personally asked Congress for funds to prosecute medical marijuana cases in states where it is legal. The legal sale of recreational marijuana remains limited to a handful of states, but 29 states plus the District of Columbia allow the prescription and distribution of medical marijuana. Recommended Slideshows 51 In Pictures: The 50 Most Powerful Military Forces in the World 44 In Pictures: Every U.S. President Ranked From Best to Worst 51 In Pictures: Top 50 U.S. Cities Ranked by Quality of Life And Average Salary National polling shows that more than half of Americans favor marijuana legalization , but an even larger majority want the federal government to leave marijuana alone in states where it is legal. This represents a glaring violation of federalism—the notion that states should generally set their own policies free from federal oversight or interference—and the Republican-controlled Congress should have no part of it. Since 2014, Congress has prevented the Department of Justice from using funds to prosecute state-legal medical marijuana transactions.  Keep up with this story and more by subscribing now What was then called the Rohrabacher-Farr Amendment (now known as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment) is a rider to the Omnibus Appropriations Bill that defunds prosecutions for state-legal medical marijuana offenses.    A cannabis sativa plant on July 2, 2005.  GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2  Congress has the constitutional authority, colloquially known as “the power of the purse,” to prohibit government agencies from using tax dollars for particular activities, such as prosecuting federal marijuana violations in states that have chosen to legalize it. Because the Senate included the no-prosecution amendment in its version of this year’s budget while the House did not, it will be up to a conference committee to decide whether the amendment stands or falls. If it does fall, hundreds of businesses will be threatened and countless chronic pain sufferers and other patients will face uncertainty in their quality of life. Moreover, studies suggest that some patients deprived of medical cannabis turn to opioids to ease their pain, putting them in greater risk of dependency or addiction in the so-called opioid epidemic. Attorney General Sessions’s attempts to link medical marijuana to the opioid crisis fly in the face of evidence from the National Institute on Drug Abuse that show places with access to medical marijuana experience fewer opioid overdoses than those without access. A RAND study also found that prescriptions of opioids and reported opioid abuse decline where state-legal marijuana dispensaries operate. Despite its perceived association with the political left, medical marijuana is not just a blue-state issue. Ten of the 29 states with legal medical marijuana—and 115 electoral votes—went for Donald Trump in the 2016 election. More than 200 million American residents, roughly 62 percent of the population, live in states where medical marijuana is legal. Nationwide, according to a 2017 CBS poll, 71 percent of Americans—including 63 percent of Republicans —oppose federal interference with state-legal marijuana. Perhaps most telling, a 2017 Quinnipiac poll found that 94 percent of American voters approve of adult medical marijuana use if prescribed by a doctor. Congress doesn’t just decide whether federal tax dollars can be used to enforce particular drugs laws—it also has the power to determine which substances should be under federal control in the first place. All drugs regulated and banned under federal law are “ scheduled ”—that is, ranked by factors like rates of abuse, potential for chemical dependence, and potential medical uses. Schedule I, which includes heroin, marijuana, and LSD, is the most restrictive and recognizes no legitimate uses, and the scales descend from there to Schedule V, which includes various analgesics and other medicines with lower potential for abuse. As the evidence continues to mount, an increasing number of doctors, patients, and policymakers reject the federal government’s assertion that marijuana has no accepted medical use and must therefore remain a Schedule I drug—particularly when opium and cocaine are classified as less restrictive Schedule II drugs on the premise that they have legitimate medical applications. Although the negative consequences of marijuana use and abuse may be downplayed in much of the discourse around legalization, the medicinal benefits to individuals have swayed enough doctors, patients, state legislatures, and public opinion that Schedule I designation ceases to make any sense. At least one Republican Congressman has proposed legislation to de-schedule marijuana entirely. In fact, Rep. Tom Garrett, a Republican former prosecutor from Virginia, introduced H.R. 1227, the Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act of 2017 . The bill would remove marijuana from the list of federal controlled substances while still prohibiting its sale across state lines. This would enable states to decide for themselves whether to legalize marijuana for medicinal or recreational purposes. Marijuana would then be subject to the state and local laws like those that apply to tobacco and alcohol. While legal marijuana may not be for every state or locale, it is clearly popular enough that the federal government should end its attempt to prohibit it where it is state legal, particularly for medicinal purposes. Millions of Americans and their doctors have determined that cannabis has medical benefits, and almost two-thirds of the states have recognized that. Congress need not take the lead on this issue, but it should at least recognize the political realities and get out of the way. Jonathan Blanks is a Research Associate in Cato’s Project on Criminal Justice and Managing Editor of PoliceMisconduct.net. A version of this post was also published at  In Justice Today . Request Reprint or Submit Correction         Most Read     Sign up for our Newsletter  Sign up  Update your preferences »   Related Stories   Is Sessions’s Objection to Marijuana Racially Motivated   Medical Marijuana Protections Blocked by Legislators   You Can Buy Grass in Vegas. But Where to Smoke It? Latest Slideshows   51  50 Best-Selling Albums in U.S. History   51  50 Poorest Members of Congress   51  Royal Family Photo Album: Prince William, Kate Middleton and Children   55  In Pictures: Mexico Border Patrol Agents Step Up Illegal Immigrant Arrests     Choose a Membership That's Perfect for You!   Print & Digital  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Print Only  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Digital Only  Free access to 40+ digital editions  Website access  Daily Newsletter  Subscribe        © 2018 Newsweek LLC About Us Corrections Contact Us Newsweek Media Group Travel Advertise Copyright Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Archive                                      Democracy Dies in Darkness               Sections          Home             Subscribe    Try 1 month for $1       Username      Sign In       Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk              Subscribe        Account  Profile  Newsletters & Alerts  Gift Subscriptions  Contact Us  Help Desk               Accessibility for screenreader                                       The Americas    Trudeau vowed to legalize marijuana across Canada by July. It hasn’t been that easy.                   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has shown no signs of wavering in his push for marijuana legalization, which he promised in his successful election campaign two years ago. (Pool photo by Ukas Michael/Getty Images)    By Alan Freeman   By Alan Freeman   October 5, 2017      OTTAWA — Canada is set to become the first advanced industrialized ­nation to legalize and regulate marijuana from production to consumption by next July, but increasingly, Canadians are wondering: What’s the hurry?  The government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is pressing ahead with legislation to legalize cannabis, a move that a majority of the Canadian public supports. But stakeholders such as police chiefs and psychiatrists are urging caution and even delay, worried that a rush to legalization will encourage consumption among young people and increase the incidence of impaired driving.  Under the proposed legislation, the Canadian government would license the growing of ­cannabis by tightly regulated producers and set standards for potency and penalties for abuse; the provinces would decide on methods for distribution.  “If legislation is ready to go in July 2018, policing will not be ready to go in August. It’s impossible,” Rick Barnum, deputy commissioner of the Ontario Provincial Police, told the health committee of Canada’s House of Commons last month as it studied the proposed law.  Barnum was part of a contingent of police chiefs from across Canada expressing concern that there isn’t time to train enough police officers to detect impaired driving among cannabis users and that if police are not ready for legalization, organized crime will take advantage of the situation to secure its hold on the market.    Medicinal marijuana plants flower in Smith Falls, Ontario. (Lars Hagberg/AFP/Getty Images)   Doctors are also worried by the legislation, which will set the minimum age for consumption at 18, although Canada’s 10 provinces will be permitted to raise the minimum age if they wish.  The Quebec Association of Psychiatrists has called the proposed law unacceptable , arguing that cannabis use in young people can lead to attention deficit and memory problems as well as an increased risk of psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. The group wants to set the minimum age at 21 or older, ban all advertising of cannabis and prohibit the growing of cannabis at home. (The proposed law would limit cannabis growers to four plants per household for personal use.)  “When you expose a growing brain to cannabis, you actually change the way it grows and matures,” said Karine Igartua, president of the Quebec psychiatry group.  Opinion surveys continue to show that Canadians support legalization in principle. But in a recent survey conducted by Nanos Research, 57 percent expressed a lack of confidence that the federal and provincial governments will be ready with a legal framework for cannabis sales by next July. And 48 percent are worried that legalization would lead to increased consumption by youths.  “People are still quite supportive of the legalization of marijuana, but they want the government to get it right,” pollster Nik Nanos said, noting that approval of legalization has been in the range of 60 percent in several surveys.  Trudeau shows no signs of wavering in his push for legalization, which he promised in his successful election campaign two years ago. “The current framework is hurting Canadians,” he said recently. “Criminal gangs and street gangs are making millions of dollars of profits off the sale of marijuana, and we need to put an end to this policing that does not work.”   [ The unbelievable popularity of Canada’s Justin Trudeau ]     In the United States, 29 states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana in some form, with nine jurisdictions allowing recreational use of pot, but cannabis remains illegal at the federal level, leading to a patchwork of regulations and enforcement.  The Canadian process is designed to result in full legalization across the country. Uruguay is the only country with a full regime for the legalized sale of cannabis, although a complication with U.S. banking regulations could imperil the country’s new marijuana market.  Trudeau’s government hopes that legalization will reduce access to marijuana by underage users. Bill Blair, a former Toronto police chief who is now a member of Parliament and Trudeau’s point person on cannabis legalization, said he understands public skepticism over whether the legislation will achieve this goal. But he says Canada already has the highest rates of pot usage among young people in the industrialized world. “You can’t regulate something that’s prohibited,” he said.  That is why the government plans to retain all of the current sanctions against the illegal production and distribution of cannabis. And it plans to add as a new offense the sale of cannabis to those 17 and younger, with a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison.  Blair said he received plenty of “candid advice” from Colorado, Washington and other states that have legalized recreational marijuana. In particular, Colorado officials suggested that Canadian authorities “start off strict” and relax regulations later. Doing the opposite is much more difficult, he said.  That is one reason that the Canadian government will not be ready with rules governing the sale of edibles by July 1. Such rules will come later, after more study, so edibles will remain illegal. “You’ll be able to make your own cake [with legal cannabis], but you won’t be able to sell it until there are strict rules in place,” Blair said.  He also gave assurances of strict controls on branding for cannabis sales. “There will be limits on how branding can be displayed so it can’t be used for marketing to kids,” he said.  Another way that marijuana legalization is shaping up differently from the U.S. experience is the decision by Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, to directly control marijuana sales through a network of up to 150 outlets run by a subsidiary of the provincial alcohol monopoly. Ontario Finance Minister Charles Sousa said the provincial government intends to shut down pot dispensaries that have popped up around the province and restrict sales to its own outlets.  The province of Quebec is believed to be leaning in the same direction.  The private dispensaries, which now offer medical marijuana and had hoped to expand into the recreational market, plan to fight back.  Paul Lewin, a Toronto lawyer specializing in cannabis cases, says Ontario’s marketing plan will not succeed and will force the dispensaries underground. “In the places where it will be a monopoly, it will fail,” Lewin said, calling the proposed state-run monopoly a new form of “prohibition.”  “The province [of Ontario] just wants a lot of money,” Lewin said.  How profitable the cannabis market ends up being for the government remains to be seen. While officials such as Blair concede a need to keep prices high to discourage consumption among young people, they are aware that if prices are too high, illicit producers will stay in business.  On Tuesday, Trudeau announced to provincial leaders that the federal government plans to impose a tax of $1 — about 80 U.S. cents — per gram on cannabis costing up to $10 a gram, plus 10 percent on cannabis priced above $10 a gram. He promised that the federal government would split the revenue 50-50 with the provinces, but the premiers have argued for more.  As for the push for a delay in the legalization date, Blair remains determined. “It’s important that we get this done,” he said. “The price of delay is continued deaths on our roadways, continued jeopardy for kids and billions of dollars in profits for organized crime.”   Read more:    Meet the Sikh politician who might ‘out-Trudeau Justin Trudeau’    ‘Build that wall?’ Some Canadians are calling for more border control, too    Canada’s infrastructure projects take off while Trump’s plans sputter    Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world    Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news                                                  Close    Now Playing                                                  Sections SEARCH Skip to content Skip to site index Subscribe Log In Subscribe Log In Advertisement Opinion Supported by Op-Ed Contributor Is Canada Ready for Legal Marijuana? Image The Canadian government is expected to legalize recreational marijuana by July 2018. Credit Robert F. Bukaty/Associated Press By  Martin Patriquin Aug. 24, 2017 MONTREAL — Black-market marijuana has been very good for Michael. For 22 years, he has grown and sold the stuff in and around Montreal. An illegal activity punishable by up to life in prison, selling the pungent bounty that he cultivates in his basement has nonetheless given Michael the sheen of middle-class respectability (though he would not give me his real name for fear of legal repercussions). Marijuana paid for the bungalow and a half-acre of land in a Montreal suburb. It paid for vacations, golf memberships and his Mercedes. In his bachelor years, it paid for his copious restaurant bills. Now it keeps his young children in hockey gear. In the mid-1990s, a time of tight supply and higher stakes, he was selling a pound for $2,500 and grossing $395,000 a year. The price has nearly halved since then, but Michael still lives very comfortably. A bar manager by trade and for appearances, the 47-year-old said that 90 percent of his income is derived from selling marijuana. The Canadian government is expected to legalize recreational marijuana by July 2018, in large part to put an end to the extensive and enduring black market for the drug on which people like Michael have thrived. Canadian businesses are anticipating a windfall. A 2016 Deloitte report estimated the legal Canadian marijuana market will be worth $18 billion annually. Far from bemoaning the potential end to his livelihood, Michael says he cannot wait for marijuana to be legalized. “We all want to transition to legal,” Michael said. “I want to do this without looking over my shoulder all the time. I want regulation and quality control. I want to pay taxes.” Longtime growers like Michael say their experience in the field, however illicit, gives them an advantage over the many large, deep-pocketed operations that have already set up across the country in anticipation of legalization. Given the chance, they say they can be the marijuana equivalent of the craft beer market, in which taste, smell and feel matter nearly as much as narcotic effect. “When legalization happens, people will be able to get their weed at the ‘dépanneur,’ ” said a woman who goes by the name Betty Cracker, using a Québécois term for corner store. “But I have 10 years’ experience, and I can refine my niche to get into the new market. You have to be creative.” Betty, 34, packages her sumptuous-looking baked goods as though they sprang from a high-end bakery, and delivers them personally to her clients. In a legal market, she could have access to capital and take credit cards. Yet because her business is illegal, she cooks in her own kitchen with an often jury-rigged supply line of marijuana and an understandable sense of paranoia. “I want to evolve and give the best product, which means testing and consistency,” she said. “Right now, it’s very hard to be consistent. It’s still a punishable offense, and they are still enforcing the law on people like me.” Big business, however, has perked up. Just over a third of the 54 licensed producers — growers and sellers who trade in medical marijuana, and will be able to do so for the recreational market once it is legalized — are publicly traded companies. The three biggest have a combined market cap of over $2.5 billion. Some are internationally owned, and most if not all have an eye on the recreational market. The reason is the demand for cannabis, which is expected to be at least 600,000 kilograms a year — about 1.32 million pounds — according to the Deloitte study. (The country’s 54 licensed producers currently produce about 20,000 pounds of dried marijuana a year.) With more than 12 percent of Canadians 15 and older (nearly 3.5 million people) reporting to have used cannabis in the past year, according to a 2012 report, many people are worried about a bottleneck in supply. Unlike the Canadian booze magnates of yore, who used their heft to muscle out smaller players once alcohol became legal in the United States following Prohibition, several of the bigger marijuana companies say they would potentially welcome, and even buy from, growers like Michael. Others, too, see a business upside to legalization. Under the proposed law, Canadians of legal age will be allowed to grow up to four marijuana plants for their own consumption. The market has already responded in kind with several companies selling home kits, phone apps and growing advice to the millions of potential amateur green thumbs across the country. The challenge for anyone wanting to go legal is getting a license to do so. Becoming a licensed producer is a marathon exercise in bureaucracy that can take up to three years. A license also requires a criminal-background check. Michael, who served a nine-month jail sentence in 2005 for marijuana trafficking, said this could keep him out of the legal system. It is one of the quandaries of legalizing marijuana, which has been illegal in Canada since 1923. Many of the people with expertise in coaxing quality marijuana from the earth have criminal records, which would potentially keep them out of the legal market. The federal government is keenly aware of the problems. Health Canada recently streamlined the licensing process, allowing for increased growing capacity among existing license holders and shorter delays for applicants. Depending on the circumstances, the government may also be willing to overlook a few past weed-related indiscretions for would-be licensees. This is the carrot end of the equation. The stick: up to 14 years in jail for selling or distributing marijuana. Michael wants to go legal, but he’ll stay in the black market if need be. Legal weed, he pointed out, will be subject to government inspections and quality-control standards. All of this will make it more expensive. A gram of weed costs Canopy Growth Corporation , the country’s largest marijuana company, $2.30 to produce, according to the company’s recent financial statements, and will be subject to both federal and provincial sales tax. In his basement, Michael can grow a gram of Headbanger — “Indica-heavy strain, very heavy stone, don’t smoke it during the day,” he says — for about 40 cents, tax-free. He’ll just have to keep looking over his shoulder. Martin Patriquin is a columnist for iPolitics.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion) , and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter . A version of this article appears in print on in The International New York Times . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Advertisement Site Index Go to Home Page » news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings listings & more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account news home page world U.S. politics politics New York business tech science sports obituaries today's paper corrections corrections opinion today's opinion today's opinion op-ed columnists editorials editorials contributing writers op-ed Contributors letters letters sunday review sunday review taking note video: opinion arts today's arts art & design books dance movies music television theater video: arts living automobiles automobiles crossword food food education fashion & style health jobs magazine real estate t magazine travel weddings more tools & services N.Y.C. events guide multimedia photography photography video NYT store times journeys manage my account Subscribe home delivery digital subscriptions Crossword email newsletters corporate subscriptions education rate mobile applications replica edition Site Information Navigation © 2018  The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Help Subscriptions Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS                                      Skip to main content     The Motley Fool    Fool.com    Fool.co.uk    Fool.com.au    Fool.ca    Fool.sg    Fool.de      Helping the world invest better since 1993.      Hi, Fool!     Premium Advice       Help    Contact Us      Login                       Latest Stock Picks     Stocks       Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)             How to Invest         Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts             Retirement         Retirement Planning   401Ks | IRAs | Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    2018 Guide to Retirement Planning    Will Social Security be there for me?   Retirement Guide: 20s | 30s | 40s | 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus      Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I Reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance        Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings             Community       Our Mission: Helping the World Invest — Better  Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services.                  Latest Stock Picks       Stocks      Stocks        Premium Services     Return  S&P;     Stock Advisor  Flagship service   328%  78%     Rule Breakers  High-growth stocks   137%  65%     Income Investor  Dividend stocks   47%  47%     Hidden Gems  Small-cap stocks   62%  60%     Inside Value  Undervalued stocks   57%  35%   Returns as of 4/10/2018     View all Motley Fool Services         Stock Market News   Latest Investing News    Gainers & Losers in the Market Today    3 Top Dividend Stocks to Buy Now    Dividend Paying Stocks for Beginners    Top Growth Stocks for 2018    Discover High Growth Stocks    10 Best Stocks Right Now        Popular Stocks   Apple Stock (AAPL)    Facebook Stock (FB)    Tesla Stock (TSLA)    Netflix Stock (NFLX)    Google Stock (GOOG)    Amazon Stock (AMZN)    GE Stock (GE)    Disney Stock (DIS)    Twitter Stock (TWTR)    Snapchat Stock (SNAP)              How to Invest      How to Invest          Learn How to Invest   How to Invest in Stocks    Start Investing with $100 a Month    Investing Knowledge Center    Learn Options Trading    Guide to Index, Mutual & ETF Funds    How to Build a Dividend Portfolio    Investing for Retirement       Track Your Performance   Portfolio Tracker    Rate & Research Stocks - CAPS   Investing Accounts   Compare Brokerage Accounts    Compare IRA Accounts              Retirement      Retirement        Retirement Planning   401Ks    IRAs    Asset Allocation    Step by step guide to retirement    Your 2017 Guide to Retirement Plans    Will Social Security be there for me?    Retirement Guide: 20s    Retirement Guide: 30s    Retirement Guide: 40s    Retirement Guide: 50s    Save for College or Retirement?   $16,122 Social Security Bonus    Already Retired   Time to Retire, Now What?    Living in Retirement in Your 60s    Should I reverse Mortgage My Home?    Should I Get a Long Term Care Policy?    Your 2018 Guide to Social Security             Personal Finance      Personal Finance         Credit Cards   Best Credit Cards of 2018    Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses    Best Balance-Transfer Credit Cards    Best Travel Credit Cards    Best Cash-Back Credit Cards    Best No-Annual-Fee Credit Cards       Mortgages   Compare Mortgage Rates    Get Pre-Approved    How Much House Can I Afford?    11 Mortgage Essentials Demystified       Taxes   2018 Guide to Tax Changes    Top Tax Deductions"    Tax Audit Red Flags    What Tax Info Should I Keep?       Saving & Budgeting  Best Savings Accounts of 2018  Best Savings Account Rates  Best CD Rates  Getting Out of Debt   College Savings              Community      Community              Login           Search  Search:                                         3 States That May Legalize Medical Marijuana Next (1 Is a Big Surprise)  Medical cannabis is already legal in 28 states, and soon enough that figure could be over 30.            Sean Williams  ( TMFUltraLong )    Dec 3, 2016 at 9:12AM       Image source: Getty Images.  This could very well go down as the best year for the marijuana industry on record. It's tough to top 1996, the first year medical marijuana was approved in a state (California), or 2012, when Colorado and Washington simultaneously became the first states to legalize the sale of recreational cannabis to adults aged 21 and up. However, in 2016 the pot industry saw residents in nine states vote on marijuana initiatives, with eight states (sorry Arizona) voting to approve their respective marijuana initiative or amendment.  Cannabis has had a stellar 2016  Following the 2016 elections, eight states (and Washington, D.C.) have recreational marijuana laws on the books, which is double where we began the year, and a whopping 28 states have now legalized medical cannabis. This year, five new states -- Pennsylvania, Ohio, Florida, North Dakota, and Arkansas -- have legalized the use of medical cannabis to treat certain ailments such as epilepsy, cancer, and glaucoma, to name a few.  This rapid state-level expansion has business booming for the legal marijuana industry. Investment firm Cowen & Co. has projected that legal sales could climb from $6 billion today to $50 billion in a decade. That's great news for state and local governments that are looking for additional sources of revenue -- and an incredible opportunity for marijuana businesses.  This expansion is also a big win for medical marijuana patients. Having more than half of all U.S. states legalize medical weed represents a major step forward in potential treatment pathways. Nationally, according to a 2015 CBS News poll, 84% of Americans want to see medical marijuana legalized nationwide.  Yet marijuana remains a schedule 1, and therefore illicit, drug at the federal level, leaving states to pass cannabis laws individually. Furthermore, two dozen U.S. states, some of which are led by conservative lawmakers who oppose the expansion of marijuana, had neither an initiative nor a referendum, which could make it difficult for certain patients to gain access to medical marijuana.  Image source: Getty Images.  Three states that could legalize medical marijuana next  Of the 22 states that haven't legalized medical cannabis, some may never legalize it. However, the following three states could very well be the next to legalize medical marijuana, and one is quite the shocker.       Oklahoma  Medical cannabis supporters in Oklahoma tried diligently to get State Question 788 on the ballot prior to the November elections, but a battle in the Oklahoma Supreme Court squashed that hope.  On one hand, Oklahomans have collected more 67,700 signatures in favor of putting a medical cannabis measure on the ballot to be voted on by residents. This was nearly 2,000 signatures more than was needed, and opponents didn't challenge the signatures collected. In short, it's not a question of whether a medical cannabis initiative will be voted on; it's just a matter of when.  On the other hand, detailing the title of Question 788 has proven a sticky situation. Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, long an ardent opponent of the expansion of cannabis, rewrote the title of the bill in such a way that the question appears to ask whether "marijuana" should be legalized in Oklahoma as opposed to "medical marijuana." Though readers would discover that medical marijuana is what's being voted on by reading further, the rewrite of the bill -- in particular the first sentence, which does not include the term "medical" -- is somewhat misleading, and proponents fear it could be defeated without the original title. Thus Question 788 is headed to the Oklahoma Supreme Court to decide whether the original title language can be used as opposed to Pruitt's modified title.  Oklahomans may have to wait a while to find out the verdict, but a medical marijuana measure of some sorts is heading to ballots within the next two years, and it seems to have a decent shot of passing.  Image source: Pixabay.  Missouri  Another state with a strong chance of getting a medical marijuana initiative on the ballot in 2018 is Missouri. The Show-Me state was already one of the finalists on track to get a medical cannabis initiative on the 2016 ballot, but it wound up falling a few thousand votes short of the signatures needed when Secretary of State Jason Kander invalidated more than 10,000 signatures.  Interestingly, however, Kander came out in support of using the legislative process to legalize medical cannabis shortly after the measure failed to collect enough signatures to get on the 2016 ballot. In a statement from the secretary of state's office, Kander said:   While supporters of this important proposal can try to put it on the ballot again in two years, I believe it is time for the state legislature to step up. The Missouri General Assembly should pass legislation to allow medical marijuana so Missouri families that could greatly benefit from it don't have to watch their loved ones continue suffering. If the legislature is not willing to do that, they should at least put the measure on the ballot themselves in 2018 to give Missouri voters the opportunity to decide on the issue.   With Kander in their corner and marijuana advocacy groups now focusing their attention on Missouri, a medical marijuana measure looks to have a good shot at being on the 2018 ballot -- and probably passing based on national sentiment toward medical pot.  Image source: Pixabay.       Texas  Remember that shocker I promised? Well, this is it. The Lone Star state of Texas could be in a prime position to legalize medical marijuana within the next two years.  Historically, Republican-led states are a tough sell for medical or recreational cannabis. Speaking generally, Republican lawmakers take a pretty conservative approach to marijuana use, with many avoiding legalization within their respective states. Texas is a longtime Republican stronghold, so it would seem likely that medical cannabis will remain illegal.  However, times could be changing. Earlier this year, Senate Bill 339 surprisingly passed in both the state's House and Senate, and Gov. Greg Abbott signed it into law. This bill allows patients suffering from a rare form of epilepsy access to cannabidiol, or CBD, the non-psychoactive component of marijuana. Furthermore, at the State Convention of the Republican Party of Texas, Republicans approved part of a platform calling for a law to "allow doctors to determine the appropriate use of cannabis to prescribed patients." The Texas Department of Public Safety is set to begin granting CBD permits in June 2017, and it's possible an expansion of medical marijuana's use could soon follow.  Legalizing medical marijuana in Texas could also generate substantial sales on the order of $2 billion to $3 billion annually. This isn't to say that Texas is having difficulty meeting its budgetary needs, but the tax revenue generated from medical cannabis would further buoy the state's budget.  A fairly recent Texas Tegna Poll found 71% support for legalizing medical pot in the state compared to just 19% opposition. The remainder were undecided. This overwhelming support, coupled with a softening legislative stance and some very large dollar figures, could push Texas to legalize medical cannabis by 2018.     Sean Williams has no material interest in any companies mentioned in this article. You can follow him on CAPS under the screen name TMFUltraLong , and check him out on Twitter, where he goes by the handle @TMFUltraLong .  The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days . We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy .                      Author         Sean Williams  ( TMFUltraLong )     A Fool since 2010, and a graduate from UC San Diego with a B.A. in Economics, Sean specializes in the healthcare sector and investment planning. You'll often find him writing about Obamacare, marijuana, drug and device development, Social Security, taxes, retirement issues and general macroeconomic topics of interest. Follow @TMFUltraLong          Article Info     Dec 3, 2016 at 9:12AM   Health Care               Read More     Here's Why Nektar Therapeutics Jumped 23% Higher in March    Will Shire Be Bought Out?    Why AVEO Oncology Jumped Higher Today    Here's Why AbbVie Inc. Fell 18.3% in March    Why MannKind Corporation Stock Sank Last Month                                     Prev    1   2    3    4    5    6     Next        Compare Brokers                                           Current        3 States That May Legalize Medical Marijuana Next (1 Is a Big Surprise) @themotleyfool #stocks                               