Breaking News Travel + Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram 'Am I Going Down?' New app analyzes odds of your flight crashing By Karla Cripps , CNN Updated 9:49 AM ET, Fri January 23, 2015 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. New app "Am I Going Down?" uses aviation statistics to analyze the odds a flight will crash. Story highlights Am I Going Down? app is aimed at people who suffer from a fear of flying Creator says his app will show nervous fliers that air travel is typically very low risk (CNN) If you're flying on a Boeing 777 Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Los Angeles on any given day, there's a one in 4,068,434 chance that your plane will crash. At least that's what a new app called "Am I Going Down?" says. That means if you take that flight every day for the next 11,146 years, you'll be unlikely to experience an incident. Created by London-based company Vanilla Pixel, the app uses real flight statistics to analyze flight safety, Developer Nic Johns says it's geared toward those who are uneasy about air travel. Read More "The initial inspiration comes from my co-founder and wife, Julie, who for many years has suffered from a fear of flying," says Johns. "In developing 'Am I Going Down?' I wanted to present the fact that the vast majority of flights are incredibly low risk. Our app is meant as tool to help reassure fearful fliers." Johns says more than 10 million routes have been assessed using data from sources such as the Geneva-based Bureau of Aircraft Accidents Archives, the United States National Transportation Safety Board and the Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization. "For my analysis I only include crashes where there was at least one passenger fatality -- which is the relevant stat for those with a fear of flying," says Johns. "I then incorporate the volume of flights, weighted to the most recent 10 years, to provide the final 'one in a million' statistics." Bad timing? Johns admits the timing of the release of the app was awkward, given that it came out just days after AirAsia flight QZ8501 went down. The developer says it was an unfortunate coincidence. "I actually developed the app in February 2014, shortly before the Malaysia Airlines MH370 disappearance," says Johns. "Due to that I postponed the release and worked on a few other things, then finalized and submitted it to Apple in December. The AirAsia QZ8501 flight crashed two weeks later. "There have been a few raised eyebrows but most people know it was a coincidence." The "Am I Going Down?" app, now available in iTunes, costs $0.99. It's only available on Apple at the moment though if the app is successful, an Android version is a possibility for the future, says Johns. "The positive response from anxious fliers has been amazing, really encouraging," says Johns. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                          search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       In A Ghost Marriage, Both Bride And Groom Are Deceased                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                                                      Accessibility links   Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                                    Travel   Menu           Culture & Identity      Food & Hospitality      Adventure & Experience      Destinations      About us                                     How human error can cause a plane crash                                     A preliminary investigation by safety officials has found that poor pilot training was at fault in the 13 April Lion Air crash in Indonesia.           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Google+           Share by Email            Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on StumbleUpon           Share on Google+           Share by Email                   By Husna Haq   22 May 2013      A preliminary investigation by safety officials has found
that poor pilot training – not windshear – was at fault in the recent Lion Air crash in Indonesia, raising concerns
about human error and the role it plays in air crashes. On 13 April, two pilots operating a Lion Air Boeing 737
undershot a runway at Ngurah Rai Airport and crashed into the waters off Bali. Preliminary
findings from the investigation found that a 24-year-old captain could not
see the runway upon descent and was forced to hand over control of the plane to
a co-captain at 46m – below the minimum altitude considered safe. While
a full investigation is not yet complete, the preliminary findings have ruled
out any fault with the aircraft.  Pilot error refers to any action or decision – or lack of
proper action – made by a pilot that plays a role in an accident. This may
include a simple mistake, a lapse in judgment or failure to exercise due
diligence. There are two
types of pilot error , according to Aviation Safety Magazine: tactical
errors, which are related to a pilot’s poor actions or decisions, often caused
by fatigue, inebriation or lack of experience; and operational errors, related
to problems with flight instruction and training. In the case of the Lion Air
incident, it appears both lack of experience and poor training may have played
a part.  In fact, pilot error is the leading cause of commercial
airline accidents, with close to 80% percent of accidents caused by pilot
error, according
to Boeing . The other 20% are mainly due to faulty equipment and unsafe,
weather-related flying conditions.  Although policies put in place to reduce pilot error are not
universal across the world, there are varying guidelines about how long a pilot
can captain a flight, how many co-pilots should be present and how many hours a
pilot can fly before taking mandatory breaks. There are also varying guidelines
about how many hours of training pilots must complete, below what altitude they
should not hand over control of a plane and when they should abort landings.  The investigation
report has recommended that Lion Air implement several safety measures,
including reviewing “the policy and procedures regarding the risk associated
with changeover of control at critical altitudes or critical time”.                                           Follow BBC Travel              Facebook           Twitter           Pinterest           Instagram                                                                                         Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                        Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.               / Maggie Koerth-Baker / 6:51 am Mon  Nov 5, 2012          Surviving a plane crash is surprisingly common             From the Boing Boing Shop     See all deals           Follow Us  Twitter / Facebook / RSS       I'm a nervous flyer. But I'm a lot better at it then I used to be. That's because, a few years ago, I learned that it's actually pretty common to survive a plane crash. Like most people, I'd assumed that the safety in flying came from how seldom accidents happened. Once you were in a crash situation, though, I figured you were probably screwed. But that's not the case.  Looking at all the commercial airline accidents between 1983 and 2000, the National Transportation Safety Board found that 95.7% of the people involved survived. Even when they narrowed down to look at only the worst accidents, the overall survival rate was 76.6%. Yes, some plane crashes kill everyone on board. But those aren't the norm. So you're even safer than you think. Not only are crashes incredibly rare, you're more likely to survive a crash than not. In fact, out of 568 accidents during those 17 years, only 71 resulted in any fatalities at all.  I was talking about this fact with a pilot friend over the weekend, and he mentioned one crash in particular that is an excellent example of the statistics in action. On July 19, 1989, United Airlines Flight 232 lost all its hydraulic controls and landed in Sioux City, Iowa, going more than 100 mph faster than it should have been. You can see the plane breaking apart and bursting into flames in the video above. Turns out, that's what a 62% survival rate looks like. (All the pilots you can hear talking in the video survived, too.)  Read more about United Airlines 232 on Wikipedia  Read the full NTSB report from 2001  In 2007, Popular Mechanics examined 36 years of NTSB reports and found that the majority of surviving passengers were sitting in the back of the plane. But that seems to depend a lot on the specifics of the crash and may not be a reliable predictor of future results.  Thanks, Shav!    SHARE / TWEET / COMMENTS    airplanes / fear / risk / Safety / Science / statistics / Technology             GET THE BOING BOING NEWSLETTER                   Loading...        4K tour of the Moon   NASA posted this high-definition tour of the Moon, a perfectly serene antidote to the noise here on Earth. Take a virtual tour of the Moon in all-new 4K resolution, thanks to data provided by NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft. As the visualization moves around the near side, far side, north and south poles, we highlight […]  READ THE REST    Bathroom hand-dryers suck in poo-particles and aerosolize them all over you and everything else   A new study in Applied and Environmental Microbiology (Sci-Hub mirror) conducted microbial surveys of the bathrooms at the University of Connecticut (where the study's lead authors are based) to investigate whether hand-dryers were sucking in potentially infectious microbes and then spraying them all over everything, as had been observed in earlier studies. READ THE REST    Woman plays flute while undergoing brain surgery   Musician Anna Henry suffered from essential tremor, a movement disorder that causes shaky hands. As the conditioned worsened, it interfered with her flute playing. So she underwent a surgical procedure called deep brain stimulation to cure it. The Texas Medical Center surgeons implanted a battery pack in her chest that delivers tiny voltages to the […] READ THE REST     Take this complete Cisco certification training at a new lower drop   For the uninitiated, Cisco is a worldwide leader in networking systems and solutions, and, as such, carrying a certification backed by them can fast-track your way to a coveted IT position in virtually any company. Of course, passing any of Cisco’s certification exams is no easy feat, but the Ultimate Cisco Certification Super Bundle can make the […]  READ THE REST    This three-track course will help you learn Six Sigma   It’s no mystery that project managers can make a pretty penny helping companies big and small cut costs and boost efficiency. But, despite the demand, you’ll have a hard time getting your foot in the door if you’re not carrying the appropriate certifications. There are a host of project management methodologies you can get certified […]  READ THE REST    HideMyAss! VPN does exactly what its name implies   In an age where net neutrality is far from a guarantee, VPNs have become a staple for users looking to make sure their online activity stays private. However, one of the biggest complaints about these services is that they slow your browsing speed to a crawl while keeping your online activity under the radar. HideMyAss! VPN is […]  READ THE REST            Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service .  We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.   Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines .  Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted.       Mark Frauenfelder  Cory Doctorow  David Pescovitz  Xeni Jardin  Rob Beschizza  Jason Weisberger Publisher  Ken Snider Sysadmin   About Us   Contact Us   Advertise   Forums   Shop   Shop Support                                        Elite Daily Bad Robot The Odds Of A Plane Crash Are One In 11 Million, Yet You're Still Afraid By John Haltiwanger Mar 25 2015 Share Are you flying somewhere today? Feeling somewhat nervous about it? You have absolutely no reason to be worried; probability is on your side. Grab some peanuts, put your headphones in, sit back and relax. The airplane has revolutionized our existence. It has cut journeys that used to take weeks and months into just a few hours. It's also extremely safe, but people continue to fear it. A recent plane crash in the French Alps may have increased people's anxieties. Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed on Tuesday not long before 11 am. Tragically, everyone on board, 144 passengers and six crew members, died in the process. Germanwings is now a trending topics on social media and will undoubtedly continue to be discussed in the coming weeks. Along with "Pretty Little Liars" and Angelina Jolie, it's currently one of the top subjects people are searching for, Google Trends reveals . We are both terrified of and fascinated by death, particularly when it happens in unusual ways. The likelihood of dying in a plane crash (or even being in one) is so slim it's almost pointless to quantify. According to The Economist , the probability of your plane going down is around one in 5.4 million. Other reports place the odds closer to one in 11 million . To put this into perspective, you are far more likely to be struck by lightning or attacked by a shark than you are to die in a plane crash. And there are even more common things that kill decidedly more frequently, including the flu . Traveling by car is 100 times more deadly than hopping on a plane. Not to mention, statistically, it's never been safer to fly . Perhaps this helps explain why we become so captivated by plane crashes when they do occur; they're just so incredibly rare. At the same time, media coverage of these sorts of events is undeniably excessive and hyperbolic. This trend is driven by a desire for increased viewership and profits. Does this say more about the media or more about us? It's a two-way street: Major news networks consistently report on tragedies because they know the public will pay attention. In 2014, plane crashes often dominated the news. From the mysterious disappearance of MH370 to the tragic crash of Air Asia Flight 8501 in December, there were eight fatal plane crashes over the course of the year. In total, commercial airline accidents killed 992 people across the globe in 2014, the most since 2005, Vice reports . But if you look at data surrounding airplane crashes in a broader sense, they have decreased exponentially over time, as highlighted by the Guardian . And at this point last year, there had already been 33 plane crashes . As of the Germanwings crash, the number for 2015 stands at 17 . It's also very telling that in 2014, airplane crashes received 43 percent more media attention than the 1.24 million ground traffic fatalities that occur across the world every year, as noted by the Washington Post. Interestingly, research has shown that the habitual coverage of plane crashes hasn't necessarily served to increase fears of flying , but it certainly hasn't helped deter them, either . Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects around 6.5 percent of the population, ABC news reports . A survey from Chapman University suggests that 43 percent of people have at least some fear of flying, and around 9 percent are so afraid they won't even step foot on a plane. The fear is so ubiquitous there's even an iPhone app called "Am I Going Down?," which helps calculate how likely it is your flight will crash. Thankfully, it usually helps reveal how low the probability is: With that said, none of this information will serve to comfort the loved ones of those who died on the Germanwings flight. Perhaps they would find some relief, however, if they weren't inundated with images of the place those closest to them perished. Should there be a discussion surrounding why this plane crashed? Absolutely. But that doesn't require 24/7 coverage of the crash site. At any given moment over the course of the next 24 hours, people will die from poverty, famine, disease, war and other forms of abhorrent violence. Simultaneously, we face the ongoing effects of climate change and inequality. Perhaps we should refocus our obsession onto these kinds of issues. It would be nice to live in a world where issues are granted attention based on their everyday impact and imminence, rather than their potential to generate profits in correlation with the whims of a fickle public. Maybe that's just wishful thinking, but it's certainly still something to think about. Citations: Why Are We So Obsessed With Plane Crashes (Vice) , Aircraft accident rates at historic low despite high profile plane crashes (The Guardian ) , Germanwings plane crash What we know so far (CNN) , Theres an app to calculate the odds of your plane crashing (Quartz) , How safe is air travel really (The Guardian) , A crash course in probability (The Economist) , Fear of flying some good things to know (ABC News) , After Air Algerie AH5017 Incident A Statistical Look At The Probability And Chances of Dying In A Plane Crash (International Business Times) , Flash Facts About Lightning (National Geographic) , Shark Attack Facts (National Geographic ) , Deaths and Mortality (CDC) , Lots of Americans fear flying But not because of plane crashes (Washington Post) Homepage Fashion & Beauty News Entertainment Life Dating Video Company About Contact Newsletter Terms Privacy                                    search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       In A Ghost Marriage, Both Bride And Groom Are Deceased                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                           Home  Communities  Create  Shop                                       21 Things More Likely Than Dying In A Plane Crash  You're more likely to win an Olympic gold medal or get hit by a meteorite.     Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016                              17726  views                             17726  views          comments             With the recent disappearance of EgyptAir flight 804, the
fear of flying has reawakened within many Americans. With stories of vanishing planes in mind, Americans may find themselves wondering if something like that could happen to them. Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects roughly 20 million people worldwide, and is a very understandable fear. The idea of being left helpless in an
emergency situation that occurs 30,000 feet above the ground is terrifying. When you decide to board a
plane, you lose control over your fate. If an accident did strike, you would have
no way to help yourself or to escape the situation! Very scary stuff to think about. However, to keep things in perspective, your chances of being in a plane
crash are extremely low, 1 in 11 million , to be exact. The odds of experiencing
one of the following are much more likely. 1. Being born with an extra finger or toe 1 in 500. 2. Becoming President of the United States 1 in 10 million. ( I'll admit that your chances are slim, but it is still more likely than dying in a plane crash.) 3. Getting killed from a meteorite 1 in 700,000. 4. Giving birth to conjoined twins 1 in 200,000. 5.  Winning an Oscar 1 in 11,500. 6. Dying from a bee sting 1 in 79,842. 7. Winning an Olympic gold medal 1 in 662,000. (Assuming you can qualify for the Olympics first…) 8. Dying from a flesh-eating bacteria 1 in a million. 9. Drowning in your bathtub 1 in 840,000. 10.  Dating a millionaire 1 in 215. (Might just drop out of college and play the odds on this one.) 11. Getting murdered 1 in 18,000. 12. Getting killed by a bear at Yellowstone National Park 1 in 2.1 million. 13. Dating a supermodel 1 in 88,000. 14. Writing a New York Times bestseller 1 in 220. 15. Having your ID stolen 1 in 465. 16. Dying in a tornado 1 in 60,000. 17. Getting poisoned 1 in 1,400. 18. Dying in a skydiving accident 1 in 100,000. 19. Becoming a nudist 1 in 6,000. 20. Meeting someone who speaks Cherokee 1 in 15,000. 21. Living to 100 years old 1 in 3.      Cover Image Credit: Premium Times                               Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016          At Brigham Young University Idaho     Popular Right Now             You May Have Worn The Prom Dress With Him, But I Get To Wear The Wedding Dress   by Victoria Higgins            The End Of The Semester As Told By Joey Tribbiani   by Caleigh Pittman            To The Nursing Major   by Morgan Leigh Jackson             Welcome new, meaningful ideas to your inbox.  Sign up for our weekly newsletter.    Thank you for signing up! Check your inbox for the latest from Odyssey.  This is not a valid email, please try again.                           6 Differences Between Denmark And The United States  While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark.     Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018                             19  views                             19  views          comments         Over spring break, I traveled to the beautiful country of Denmark. While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark. Here are a list of things that I noticed were different in the United States. 1. Everything is so much more expensive. I've already talked about this a little in a previous article I have written, but when I say this place is expensive, I mean it. A bottle of water in America is around $1.50 to $2.00. I bought a bottle of water in Denmark and it was upwards to $5.00. If you are planning a trip to Denmark, make sure to budget accordingly. Make sure you figure out what you want to spend your money on. I suggest getting an Airbnb and grocery shopping for breakfasts, lunches, or dinners. Eating in restaurants will add up really quickly. Try putting that money towards museums and other entertainment. Oh, also, public transportation is amazing, but also very, very expensive. Try to use the train as little as possible. Maybe rent a car or a bike, if you're just planning on staying in Copenhagen. But, if you are traveling around the country, consider a bus. Gas prices are, you guessed it, way more expensive in Denmark. Do your research about the cheapest ways to get around, depending on the cities or towns you'd like to visit. 2. The people are friendly, but not in the way you're used to. Danish people get a horrible reputation. If you have read anything about the Danes, you've probably read they are rude and unfriendly. That is the furthest from the truth. The Danes are so willing to help and will never give you the cold shoulder. However, do not expect the overly friendly type of people you'd find in America. They are willing to give you directions and help you out if you're confused, but you must approach them first. They do not talk to strangers first but will have no problem answering a question. Just don't small talk or ask them anything too personal. They like their privacy. Also, most of the Danes speak excellent English, so there is no trouble there. 3. The food is... interesting. I didn't hate the food. I actually liked the food a lot more than the food in Ireland, but it is not Italian cuisine. A lot of fish, egg, and mayo. Oh, and hotdogs. Don't be afraid to try it. Trust me, it is not as bad as it looks. I had a burger with what is called "red salad," which is just basically cranberries. Yes, you heard right. A burger with cranberries. Also, there was no beef on this burger. It was a type of slimy pork. It wasn't the best thing I have ever had, but it was an experience nevertheless. If you ever visit, you have to try the open faced sandwiches! The Danes swear by them. 4. Teenagers are allowed to drink and they are allowed to drink on the streets. The drinking age in Denmark is 15. Which means you'll get to see teenagers running around with beer cans just on the street. Denmark doesn't have a law against drinking in public, so it is completely legal and normal. Don't get too freaked out. I was in Aalborg and saw a group of people playing a drinking game right in a public park. You don't have to join the trend, but just try to act as normal as possible around it. The Danes think it's rude if you stare or are too judgmental. 5. Bikes are everywhere. In any of the major cities: Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg, etc, you will see more bikes than cars. So much so, there is a specific bike lane for bikers. It is the size of a road. Biking is the cheapest and fastest way to get around in Denmark. Plus, everyone really does care about the environment. Bikes has just become the most used form of transportation. When in Copenhagen, rent a bike. It is the best way to see the city. Remember to look for bikes too! They go faster than the cars and will not be happy about you walking in the bike lane. It is not a sidewalk. 6. Denmark is so safe. I'm not saying America isn't safe, but what I am saying, is people in Denmark leave their babies outside in a stroller while they are in a restaurant and this is normal. Their baby. Outside. And they aren't worried about someone kidnapping them. That is how safe this place is. Story time: I lost my wallet while I was in Aarhus. I got a call from Kent State the next day saying someone had found it and wanted to return in. A Dane literally contacted Kent State after seeing my flashcard wanting to return my wallet, which had cash and my credit cards in it. When I got it back, everything was still inside. Including old receipts. When I say this place is safe, I mean it's safe. Denmark is such a beautiful country and if you ever have the chance, visit. It's worth the many pennies.    Cover Image Credit: Photo by Max Adulyanukosol on Unsplash    Keep Reading                        Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018          At Kent State University       Related Content                      A Letter To Who We Can't Forget No Matter How Hard We Try   by Alyssa Taylor            4 Haunted Places In America   by Aubrielle Cuccuini            Poetry On Odyssey: "Eiffel"   by Kaitlyn Eichenbaum          Connect with a generation of new voices.  We are students, thinkers, influencers, and communities sharing our ideas with the world. Join our platform to create and discover content that actually matters to you.  Learn more  Start Creating                The Ultimate Travel Guide: Prague  Thinking about visiting the Czech Republic's iconical capital city? Here's what you need to know.     Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018                             216  views                             216  views          comments         A beautiful and unique city known for everything ranging from its rich history to its active nightlife, Prague is a gem in the heart of the Czech Republic that cannot be missed. Located in the northwest of the Czech Republic, Prague has a beauty that can only be understood by traveling to the city itself. Before starting my trip to Europe, I asked the advice of several other travelers about which destinations they recommend that I travel to. High on the list of many of these travelers was Prague. With so many recommendations, I simply had to visit. But what makes this city such a favorite among both travelers and its inhabitants? To start with, I found the people of the Czech Republic to be very kind to their visitors; they wanted to share the country that they love so much with anyone who is willing to take the time to visit. As far as activities go, exploring Prague without a map was one of my favorite experiences in the city. The day I arrived, I decided to wander around in search of food. In the process, I was able to get a glimpse of some of the famous architecture around the city, as well as some of its most iconic sights. After returning to my hostel, I was able to do some research into the history of these locations while also planning out the places I wanted to spend more time with. As far as specific attractions go, Prague is a perfect city to visit no matter your time frame. With that being said, a few of the most prominent and worthwhile attractions include the Charles Bridge, all of Old Town, Wenceslas Square, Petrin Hills, and Prague Castle. The main sights can be seen in a tour around the city in a day (which requires a ton of walking), but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t spend any more time there. Now let’s pretend you have just arrived in Prague and you are eager to see everything you can in just one walking journey. Doing this, I would suggest starting in Wenceslas Square and walking down the slope towards Old Town. A walk through Old Town takes you through the picturesque streets of Prague, while also allowing you to visit the Astronomical Tower, the Old Town Square, and St. Nicolas’ Church; all of which are well worth it if you find yourself in Prague. After seeing these iconic sights, wandering towards the Jewish Quarter of the city provides an opportunity to learn some of the history of the city through the years. From there, walk towards the river to see the concert hall known as Rudolfinum while listening to music written by Czech composers that you might not recognize by name, but you will recognize by their music. Walk along the Vltava River towards the Charles Bridge where you should take your time to take in the atmosphere and the unique architecture of the bridge as well as the views of Old Town and Prague Castle as they face off across the river. This walk brings you to the other side of the river where you can see the somewhat surprising Lennon Wall as well as taking a trip to Prague Castle. This walking trip provides an opportunity to see most major sights in Prague. Like with any city, it is possible to go into more detail if you so desire, and Prague is a city that deserves that extra attention. There are museums and historical sites littered throughout the city, and they are not hard to find. I visited the National Technical Museum in a quieter part of the city and I was blown away by the size and level of detail that the museum provided. Anyone with enough interest could spend a full day exploring every detail. In addition to that, the Jewish museum in the Jewish Quarter is well known and has the reputation of being very good, but I did not have the time to visit it, unfortunately. The Prague Castle allows for entry that is free of charge, but a ticket is required to visit some parts of the complex. Purchase of this ticket depends on the level of detail you wish to go into, and the amount of time you have to spend there. The activity that I highly recommend is taking a trip to the Petrin Hills where you can buy a ticket to ascend Petrin Tower where the views of the city are simply breathtaking. These examples stand as just a few options for ideas on how to make your trip to Prague as complete as you can want. After taking a walk around the city to see all of the sights, taking the public transportation provides for a welcome rest from all of the walking. The transportation is cheap and cost is based on time which makes it perfect for travelers who want unlimited travel for just a few days. As far as additional public transportation goes, taxis can be found throughout the city, but be sure to find a good price. In many instances, getting an Uber will be far more convenient and allow for the best possible price. The Czech Republic is a beautiful country and its capital city is the culmination of the country’s beauty. Prague is a city that should be on every traveler’s list for its uniqueness, its culture, and its people.    Cover Image Credit: Jacob Mitchener   Keep Reading                        Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018          At University of Maryland College Park       Related Content                          The Value Of Travel Is Not In The Pretty Pictures We Take   by Linnea Shapter            Terror Within The Walls: Hauntings Of Eastern State Penitentiary   by Grace Kinnicutt            Everyone Should Go To Osaka To Find Some Peace And Quiet   by Erin O’Donnell                           Facebook Comments            Home  Communities  Create  Shop   Apply to create for Odyssey    About Odyssey  Service Desk  Careers  Odyssey Community  Terms of Service  DMCA Report  Privacy Policy  Copyright Policy                                              share        Trending         Tech  #WhoaScience            Tech  #WhoaScience   Mar 14, 2017 @ 12:10 PM           If My Airplane Crashes, What Are My Chances Of Survival?                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Quora    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.                    Photographer: Gill Allen/Bloomberg News      What are the chances of surviving in a plane crash? originally appeared on Quora : the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world .  Answer by Tom Farrier , Retired USAF rescue helicopter pilot; current aviation safety contractor (UAS), on Quora :  Ignore Hollywood. Aircraft involved in crashes are safer than at any time in history, thanks to decades of experience, research, and safety enhancements. According to Aviation Safety Network , in 2016 there were about one hundred and sixty three aviation “accidents” worldwide, including those involving business jets and military transports as well as jet and propeller airliners. A grand total of twenty-four resulted in fatalities, meaning only about 15% of all accidents in this grouping — which themselves are extremely rare events — actually resulted in lives being lost.    (FYI, only five of the fatal 2016 accidents were in the U.S, and none involved a major U.S. air carrier.)  Consider four possible outcomes to any crash:   You survive a survivable accident;  You survive a non-survivable accident;   You don’t survive a survivable accident; or  You don’t survive a non-survivable accident.   So, what the heck is a “survivable accident,” anyway? Well, to synthesize a couple of different takes on the subject, most in the aviation safety business (as well as those interested in other types of vehicle safety), look for three conditions:   The forces encountered by human occupants were within the limits of human tolerance;  The structure surrounding occupants remains substantially intact, maintaining an uncompromised volume around them; and  The post-crash environment does not present an immediate threat to occupants or rescuers.   In practical terms, this means directing forces away from people, slowing the onset of those that can’t be re-directed, preventing internal structures from failing in such a way as to stuck into the area where the carbon-based life forms are, and keeping the fire, smoke and fumes from easily starting or readily spreading. On this basis, you can see that a smoking hole in the ground is non-survivable, and there’s always a possibility that a small number of people don’t get the full benefit of protections that rendered the overall accident to be considered “survivable.” But, there are many, many examples to the contrary in events classified as “accidents” due to property damage and/or major injuries experienced in them.  In February of 2001, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board released the results of a comprehensive review of air carrier safety. They noted, “Fatal accidents such as TWA flight 800, ValuJet flight 592, and EgyptAir 990 receive extensive media coverage. Nonfatal accidents, however, often receive little coverage. As a result, the public may perceive that most air carrier accidents are not survivable. In fact, the Board's study shows that since 1983, more than 95% of the passengers survived.” (That includes accident where, given the criteria above, the accident itself should have been considered “non-survivable.)  A large contributor to this record goes to the many improvements the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration required of air carriers over time. These included:   Improved seat cushions with reduced flammability.  Floor proximity emergency escape path marking.  Lavatory smoke detectors.  Lavatory fire extinguishers.  Halon fire extinguishers.  Improved interior materials.  Cargo compartment liners.  Cargo compartment fire detection/suppression.  Thermal/acoustic insulation.  16G seats.  Improved access to certain types of exits.   (These are expanded upon in a graphic available at FAA Fact Sheet: Improvements to Aircraft Survivability ).  If you keep passengers properly restrained until the noise dies down and the movement stops, you reduce the likelihood of a fire starting in the first place, you delay its propagation, and you make the by-products of burning stuff less toxic, you have a much better chance of keeping everybody alive.  This was Air France 358, following a landing that went bad at Toronto-Pearson International Airport in 2005:  (Photo: CBS.com )   (Photo: blogto.com )  Everybody lived.  This was Asiana Airlines 214, which hit the sea wall in front of the runway touchdown zone on short final to San Francisco International on July 6, 2013:  (Photo: KTVU.com )  People were ejected from this aircraft during its post-impact tumble and break-up, but two of the only three people who died were accidentally struck by first responders in the confusion. There were many significant injuries suffered by the crew and passengers, but the aircraft did what it was supposed to do under extreme conditions — it protected its occupants as well as it possibly could, and it didn’t allow fire to spread until there was time to get everyone evacuated.  Bottom line: accidents are rare; when they happen, fatalities are that much rarer thanks to a lot of hard work and investment in making planes as safe as possible.  This question originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter , Facebook , and Google+ . More questions:   Airplanes : What happens when someone dies on a plane?  Air Travel : Why do airliners have engines under the wings rather than inside the fuselage?  Aviation Accidents and Incidents : What happened to the Flight MH370?                  Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                    Information is Beautiful information is beautiful Reduce Your Chances of Dying in a Plane Crash Sections about blog data books training contact  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Connect facebook twitter instagram pinterest RSS feed facebook twitter instagram RSS feed Search Search E.g: Billion dollar-o-gram Based on a true story Mountains out of molehills Categories interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Popular Rhetological Fallacies - A list of Logical Fallacies & Rhetorical Devices with examples What Streaming Music Services Pay World's Best Hangover Cure? Biggest Fake News Stories of 2017 Ikigai - Japanese concept to enhance work, life & sense of worth Cause Célèbre - Gender Split Behind Celebrity Charitable Giving & Causes Best Albums of 2017: The Consensus: Infographic Star Wars 'Last Jedi': One of the Biggest Rotten Tomatoes Audience vs Critics Score Splits Ever UK's Brexit Divorce Bill-ions Tooth & Law - What's halal? What's kosher? The UK's Brexit Options in the Eurozone Landscape - Visualized UK Government Spending - Incomes & Outcomes  Follow  Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Enter your email address to get spam-free viz updates straight to your inbox!  License this image → Follow us on Facebook → Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Share this  Facebook  3,204  Twitter   StumbleUpon  6,254  Pinterest  141  Reddit  1 Email Related visualizations Mavericks & Heretics What is Consciousness Cocktails – Interactive Oil Well – Static Version Extreme Global Warming Solutions Currently on the Table Making data into art Sources The Guardian Datablog: Most Popular Airliners , Ascend Worldwide , AviationSafety.net , Wikipedia: List Of Accidents On Commercial Airliners , Flowing Data: Safest Seat To Sit In See the data http://bit.ly/IIB_PlaneCrash Subjects how to science Older Drugs World  Newer Caffeine and Calories  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Knowledge is Beautiful: "Thought-provoking as well as startlingly attractive" - Wall Street Journal Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Menu Home About Contact Our Picks Living data Buy our books Interactive More IIB Awards David McCandless VizSweet Follow  Information is Beautiful © 2007 — 2018Breaking News Travel + Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram 'Am I Going Down?' New app analyzes odds of your flight crashing By Karla Cripps , CNN Updated 9:49 AM ET, Fri January 23, 2015 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. New app "Am I Going Down?" uses aviation statistics to analyze the odds a flight will crash. Story highlights Am I Going Down? app is aimed at people who suffer from a fear of flying Creator says his app will show nervous fliers that air travel is typically very low risk (CNN) If you're flying on a Boeing 777 Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Los Angeles on any given day, there's a one in 4,068,434 chance that your plane will crash. At least that's what a new app called "Am I Going Down?" says. That means if you take that flight every day for the next 11,146 years, you'll be unlikely to experience an incident. Created by London-based company Vanilla Pixel, the app uses real flight statistics to analyze flight safety, Developer Nic Johns says it's geared toward those who are uneasy about air travel. Read More "The initial inspiration comes from my co-founder and wife, Julie, who for many years has suffered from a fear of flying," says Johns. "In developing 'Am I Going Down?' I wanted to present the fact that the vast majority of flights are incredibly low risk. Our app is meant as tool to help reassure fearful fliers." Johns says more than 10 million routes have been assessed using data from sources such as the Geneva-based Bureau of Aircraft Accidents Archives, the United States National Transportation Safety Board and the Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization. "For my analysis I only include crashes where there was at least one passenger fatality -- which is the relevant stat for those with a fear of flying," says Johns. "I then incorporate the volume of flights, weighted to the most recent 10 years, to provide the final 'one in a million' statistics." Bad timing? Johns admits the timing of the release of the app was awkward, given that it came out just days after AirAsia flight QZ8501 went down. The developer says it was an unfortunate coincidence. "I actually developed the app in February 2014, shortly before the Malaysia Airlines MH370 disappearance," says Johns. "Due to that I postponed the release and worked on a few other things, then finalized and submitted it to Apple in December. The AirAsia QZ8501 flight crashed two weeks later. "There have been a few raised eyebrows but most people know it was a coincidence." The "Am I Going Down?" app, now available in iTunes, costs $0.99. It's only available on Apple at the moment though if the app is successful, an Android version is a possibility for the future, says Johns. "The positive response from anxious fliers has been amazing, really encouraging," says Johns. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                                                                    Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express.         Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter                 Login    Register          Apps  Puzzles  Horoscopes  Shop  Paper      13 °C         HOME   News    Showbiz & TV    Sport    Comment    Finance    Travel    Entertainment    Life & Style      Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News   Home Travel Travel News Flight secrets reveal why THIS part of the flight is the most dangerous                Flight secrets reveal why THIS part of the flight is the most dangerous  PLANE crashes are very rare, but they are most likely to occur during this time of the flight.    By Kara Godfrey     PUBLISHED:  11:09, Sat, Nov 4, 2017  | UPDATED: 16:33, Sat, Nov 4, 2017            Getty A plane is most likely to crash during this part of the flight Plane crashes are very rare, with flying being one of the safest ways to travel. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) found that in 2016, there was an average of one accident for every 2.86 million flights. With the odds of being killed in flight one in 11 million (compared to one in 5,000 for car accidents), many have nothing to fear regarding air travel. Despite this, there are two moments during a flight that plane crashes are much more likely.   Related articles       Can turbulence make a plane fall out of the sky?       WATCH: Plane COLLIDES with two cars after crash landing on busy ROAD        Plane crashes are most likely during the first three minutes and last eight minutes of the flight    Plane crashes are most likely during the first three minutes and last eight minutes of the flight. Called the Plus Three Minus Eight rule, statistically, this is the most dangerous time, according to a Ben Sherwood, author of "The Survivors Club — The Secrets and Science That Could Save Your Life”. People are advised to follow the rule by not doing anything to hinder their escape, such as listening to music, taking their shoes off or falling asleep. After that, the likelihood of a plane crash is much lower and people can relax into the flight.     The most shocking plane crashes in the world  Tue, August 1, 2017  You're more likely to die driving your car, but that doesn't stop a lot of us being terrified of planes. Looking through these photos, you can see why          Play slideshow        Popperfoto/Getty Images   1 of 11    Plane crashes that shocked the world, including the terrifying story of the Andes flight disaster              Getty A plane is most likely to crash during take-off and landing It isn’t the only thing that could save a passengers life. A yellow hook on the wing of a plane can be spotted through the plane window, which has often baffled travellers. It has been revealed that it is used to tether ropes to in the case of an emergency landing, one to the emergency door and one to the inflatable slide. The two holed tool could end up saving lives.       Getty Plane passengers should always listen to the safety demonstations One cabin crew member has told the story of why he ended up quitting her job, after a plane crash fear. A self-proclaimed psychic was onboard during one of the flight attendants trips, who screamed: “This plane is going to crash and we’re all going to f*****g die.” They moved her to a private part of the plane, to prevent her from scaring other passengers. What happens next is terrifying.          Related articles      What are the chances of a mid-air collision on a flight?     Flashing seatbelt sign means THIS terrifying problem     Why don’t planes fly over Antarctica?       Travel News                                           Latest videos        The Chase: Anne Hegerty jibes at Bradley Walsh after he slams contestant 'Ridiculous!'         Yulia Skripal: Will Putin demand Russian's return or will she flee to the USA?         World Cup 2018 CARNAGE: Fears Nazi loving Russian ultras ready to BRUTALISE England fans         'This is a wake up call' Germany urges EU to thrash out Brexit agreement with UK         Ashley Graham Instagram: Star jiggles pert derriere in racy swimwear clip with her mum, 53                                   Titanic brochure and intact ticket from doomed liner emerges for sale          How long do you spend planning a holiday? Research suggests it could be costing you          Google Earth: Giant target spotted in Nevada desert - but what is it aiming at?          Cheap car hire: This is how you can rent a car in Europe For £1 a day          Revealed: Four simple breathing tricks to steady your pre-flight nerves          Universal Orlando Resort expects visitor surge after Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway          Revealed: The world’s busiest airport - which UK airport made the list?          Croatian tourism to face challenging year, although visitors are on the up          REVEALED: Which UK airlines have the most legroom in economy class?          ‘Disruptive’ passenger fined £2,500 after Ryanair flight forced to U-turn back to the UK            Mayor considers charging day-trippers for this popular European city break destination          Google Maps Street View captures ‘dismembered’ legs in Alaska          WATCH: Bad driver slams into bike rider - only for this to happen next          Queen Elizabeth has never visited THESE Commonwealth countries on a state visit          Avios points travel scheme CLOSING - can you still spend your points?          Lufthansa cancels 800 flights in Germany - with 90,000 passengers affected            UK’s worst cities for traffic congestion in pictures - does your city make the list?          WATCH: Shocking moment tipper truck falls catapulting the driver          Foreign travel advice: Myanmar introduces fast-track visa approval 365 days a year          Norwegian Cruise Line passengers receive free trip after enduring '16 days of hell’          Google Earth: Mystery structure spotted in the ocean - is THIS the lost city of Atlantis?          Revealed: The cheapest destination for a short city break can be found in Eastern Europe          WATCH: Bad driver brakes on busy motorway after missing exit - causing THIS to happen          Heathrow Terminal 1 is auctioning off its entire contents - how to own a piece of history          Britons are over-tipping by £78 because they don’t understand local tipping etiquette          Flight news: You could be entitled to compensation if you missed a flight connection            Hotel news: This is why hoteliers in Spain's Balearics are being forced to slash prices          Flight news: Man sues this airline after landing at the wrong airport          Cabin crew reveal why you should NEVER use the pillow on a plane          Tunisia holidays: Are they really safe? Latest travel update for 2018 British holiday          Camilla Duchess of Cornwall doesn’t always travel with Prince Charles due to this reason          Immigration map shows how the UK has DOUBLED in just thirty years                      SEARCH          CONNECT WITH US    Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter    Check us on Google+    Subscribe to our rss feed      TODAY'S PAPER       Tuesday, 10th April 2018  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
                    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
                    newspaper archive.          News    UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries        Latest News    Brexit  European Union  Theresa May  Angela Merkel  Donald Trump  The Queen  Kate Middleton  Meghan Markle  Diesel  Cancer  Diabetes  Dementia  YouTube      Showbiz & TV    TV & Radio  Celebrity News        Sport    Football  Stats  Transfer news  Premier League  Manchester United  Liverpool  Arsenal  Chelsea  Tottenham Hotspur  Manchester City  West Ham  Everton  Celtic  Rangers  Golf  F1  Boxing  Tennis  UFC  Cricket  Rugby Union  Racing        Pictures    Pics  Celebrity Galleries  Royal Galleries  Sport Galleries      Comment    Express Comment  Columnists  Beachcomber      Finance    City & Business  Personal Finance  The Crusader  Retirement      Travel    Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News      Entertainment    Films  Gaming  Theatre  Books  Music  Puzzles        Life & Style    Life  Style  Health  Cars  Garden  Food  Property  Diets  Tech  Saturday  Win  S Mag  Top 10 Facts      EXPRESS.CO.UK    Sitemap  Site Archive  Contact Us  Report a Tech Issue  Advertising  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Terms & Conditions  Developed by Netro42  Syndication and Licensing  Clarifications and Corrections          Daily Star    OK! Magazine    new! Magazine    Star Magazine    Copyright ©2018 Express Newspapers.
            "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.                                                               Skip to content   Menu  Home Home About Statistic Brain Business Marketing Industries Companies Media People Entertainment Music Film Finance Financial Salaries Geographic Crime Government Geographic Food Demographic Demographic Education Health Technology Physical Technology Internet & Websites Sports Football Baseball Basketball Other Sports               Airplane Crash Statistics  Posted on May 23, 2017 May 24, 2017 by seth  Share This Data Airplane Crash Statistics Data Odds of being killed on a single airline flight 1 in 29.4 million Number of fatalities per million flight hours 12.25 Survival rate of passengers on a fatal crash 24 % Fatalities by Phase of Flight Percent Taxi, load/unload, parked, tow 0 % Takeoff 16 % Initial Climb 14 % Climb (flaps up) 13 % Cruise 16 % Descent 4 % Initial Approach 12 % Final Approach 13 % Landing 12 % Most Recent Airline Crashes Date Phase Fatalities Kogalymavia Flight 9268 November 1, 2015 En Route 224 Trigana Air Flight 267 Aug 16, 2015 En Route 54 Germanwings Flight 9525 March 24, 2015 En Route 150 Indonesia Flight 8501 Dec 28, 2014 En Route 162 Air Algerie Flight 5017 Jul 24, 2014 En Route 116 Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 Jul 17 2014 En Route 298 Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 Mar 8, 2014 En Route 239 Tatarstan Airlines Flight 363 Nov 17, 2013 Landing 50 Dana Air Flight 992 Jun 3 2012 Approach 163 Cause of Fatal Airplane Crashes Percent of Crashes Pilot Error 32 % Pilot Error  (weather related) 16 % Pilot Error (mechanical related) 5 % Total Pilot Error 53 % Other Human Error 6 % Weather 12 % Mechanical Failure 20 % Sabotage 8 % Other Cause 1 %  ADVERTISEMENT    Crashes and Fatalities on Aircrafts with 19 or More Passengers Year Number of Fatal Crashes Number of Fatalities 2015 3 428 2014 6 931 2013 7 266 2000 21 1,029 1990 20 618 1989 35 1,690 1972 41 2,347 North American Commercial Airline Accidents Airline Million Flights Fatal Events Last Fatality Accident Rate Air Canada 4.37 0 (1983) -537% AirTran Airways(ValuJet) 2.60 1 1996 +75% Alaska Airines/ Horizon 5.08 1 2000 -174% American Airlines 16.51 5 2001 +5% American Eagle / Executive 11.10 4 1994 -28% Comair 4.86 2 2006 +283% Continental AL/Cont. Exp. 12.39 4 2009 -905% Delta Airlines 16.03 1 1996 -1695% Hawaiian Airlines 1.25 0 None -225% JetBlue 1.62 0 None -262% Southwest Airlines 18.15 0 None -1915% United Airlines 12.87 3 2001 -517% United Express 11.50 2 1996 -598% US Airways 11.91 3 1994 -200% WestJet 1.30 0 None -230%  Posted in Health Tagged news  PREV DATA SET NEXT DATA SET Statistic Sources & References   Source: Statistic Brain Research Institute (Online / Direct Response Mail)  Content Author: Statistic Brain Date research was conducted: May 23, 2017 Airplane Crash Statistics ADVERTISEMENT    Related Statistic Brain Research      STATISTIC BRAIN EVENTS The first cryptocurrency benefiting education and free research. Free coin distribution starting soon. For more information and to sign up for the StatCoin newsletter  CLICK HERE       INTERESTING CATEGORIES NUMBER OF A list of categories that will answer that burning question you have as to the number of something.  View Here  ACTORS SALARIES Ever wonder how much a certain actor got paid for a film? View Here  DISEASES Looking to study up on the most common / uncommon diseases. View Here  php if( get_field('remove_ads') ): ?  php else: ?      php endif; ?  TRENDING STATISTICS  High-Speed Internet Access Statistics  Schizophrenia Statistics  Babe Ruth Career Statistics  Fear / Phobia Statistics  Credit Card Fraud Statistics  Chewing Gum Statistics   Information & Support About Us   Contact   Our Methodology   Cite Statistics   FAQ   Privacy Policy   Statistic Brain Extras RSS Feed   Statistical Videos   Historic Timelines   Become a Statistic Survey    Receive Our Monthly Newsletter    STATISTIC BRAIN EVENTS The first cryptocurrency benefiting education and free research. Free coin distribution starting soon. For more information and to sign up for the StatCoin newsletter  CLICK HERE    Copyright © 2018 | Statistic Brain Research InstituteBreaking News Travel + Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram 'Am I Going Down?' New app analyzes odds of your flight crashing By Karla Cripps , CNN Updated 9:49 AM ET, Fri January 23, 2015 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. New app "Am I Going Down?" uses aviation statistics to analyze the odds a flight will crash. Story highlights Am I Going Down? app is aimed at people who suffer from a fear of flying Creator says his app will show nervous fliers that air travel is typically very low risk (CNN) If you're flying on a Boeing 777 Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Los Angeles on any given day, there's a one in 4,068,434 chance that your plane will crash. At least that's what a new app called "Am I Going Down?" says. That means if you take that flight every day for the next 11,146 years, you'll be unlikely to experience an incident. Created by London-based company Vanilla Pixel, the app uses real flight statistics to analyze flight safety, Developer Nic Johns says it's geared toward those who are uneasy about air travel. Read More "The initial inspiration comes from my co-founder and wife, Julie, who for many years has suffered from a fear of flying," says Johns. "In developing 'Am I Going Down?' I wanted to present the fact that the vast majority of flights are incredibly low risk. Our app is meant as tool to help reassure fearful fliers." Johns says more than 10 million routes have been assessed using data from sources such as the Geneva-based Bureau of Aircraft Accidents Archives, the United States National Transportation Safety Board and the Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization. "For my analysis I only include crashes where there was at least one passenger fatality -- which is the relevant stat for those with a fear of flying," says Johns. "I then incorporate the volume of flights, weighted to the most recent 10 years, to provide the final 'one in a million' statistics." Bad timing? Johns admits the timing of the release of the app was awkward, given that it came out just days after AirAsia flight QZ8501 went down. The developer says it was an unfortunate coincidence. "I actually developed the app in February 2014, shortly before the Malaysia Airlines MH370 disappearance," says Johns. "Due to that I postponed the release and worked on a few other things, then finalized and submitted it to Apple in December. The AirAsia QZ8501 flight crashed two weeks later. "There have been a few raised eyebrows but most people know it was a coincidence." The "Am I Going Down?" app, now available in iTunes, costs $0.99. It's only available on Apple at the moment though if the app is successful, an Android version is a possibility for the future, says Johns. "The positive response from anxious fliers has been amazing, really encouraging," says Johns. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                          search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       In A Ghost Marriage, Both Bride And Groom Are Deceased                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                                                      Accessibility links   Accessibility Help        BBC iD      Notifications         BBC navigation    Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World   Menu      Search    Search the BBC   Search the BBC                                    Travel   Menu           Culture & Identity      Food & Hospitality      Adventure & Experience      Destinations      About us                                     How human error can cause a plane crash                                     A preliminary investigation by safety officials has found that poor pilot training was at fault in the 13 April Lion Air crash in Indonesia.           Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on WhatsApp           Share on Google+           Share by Email            Share on Facebook           Share on Twitter           Share on Reddit           Share on StumbleUpon           Share on Google+           Share by Email                   By Husna Haq   22 May 2013      A preliminary investigation by safety officials has found
that poor pilot training – not windshear – was at fault in the recent Lion Air crash in Indonesia, raising concerns
about human error and the role it plays in air crashes. On 13 April, two pilots operating a Lion Air Boeing 737
undershot a runway at Ngurah Rai Airport and crashed into the waters off Bali. Preliminary
findings from the investigation found that a 24-year-old captain could not
see the runway upon descent and was forced to hand over control of the plane to
a co-captain at 46m – below the minimum altitude considered safe. While
a full investigation is not yet complete, the preliminary findings have ruled
out any fault with the aircraft.  Pilot error refers to any action or decision – or lack of
proper action – made by a pilot that plays a role in an accident. This may
include a simple mistake, a lapse in judgment or failure to exercise due
diligence. There are two
types of pilot error , according to Aviation Safety Magazine: tactical
errors, which are related to a pilot’s poor actions or decisions, often caused
by fatigue, inebriation or lack of experience; and operational errors, related
to problems with flight instruction and training. In the case of the Lion Air
incident, it appears both lack of experience and poor training may have played
a part.  In fact, pilot error is the leading cause of commercial
airline accidents, with close to 80% percent of accidents caused by pilot
error, according
to Boeing . The other 20% are mainly due to faulty equipment and unsafe,
weather-related flying conditions.  Although policies put in place to reduce pilot error are not
universal across the world, there are varying guidelines about how long a pilot
can captain a flight, how many co-pilots should be present and how many hours a
pilot can fly before taking mandatory breaks. There are also varying guidelines
about how many hours of training pilots must complete, below what altitude they
should not hand over control of a plane and when they should abort landings.  The investigation
report has recommended that Lion Air implement several safety measures,
including reviewing “the policy and procedures regarding the risk associated
with changeover of control at critical altitudes or critical time”.                                           Follow BBC Travel              Facebook           Twitter           Pinterest           Instagram                                                                                         Explore the BBC     Home    Home    News    News    Sport    Weather    Shop    Earth    Travel    Capital    iPlayer    Culture    Autos    Future    TV    Radio    CBBC    CBeebies    Food    iWonder    Bitesize    Travel    Music    Earth    Arts    Make It Digital    Taster    Nature    Local    Tomorrow's World             Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    Get Personalised Newsletters    Advertise with us    Ad choices     Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.                        Life + Health | Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk   Sign In   Search iii.org       Main  Insurance: The Basics About the Industry Auto Insurance Homeowners + Renters Insurance Life Insurance Financial Planning Business Insurance Disasters + Preparedness Thought Leadership Other Insurance Topics Research + Data Auto Catastrophes Commercial Crime + Fraud Homeowners Insurance Industry Life + Health Technology Resource Center Apps Event Calendar I.I.I. Glossary I.I.I. Store Latest Studies Newsroom Presentations Publications The I.I.I. Insurance Blog Video Library    MEMBERS   Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account   EN ESPAÑOL   Conceptos Básicos de Seguros   Connect With Us                         Popular search terms  Automobile  Home + Renters  Claims  Fraud  Hurricane      Popular Topics  Automobile  Home + Renters  The Basics  Disaster + Preparation  Life Insurance     Popular Media   Video Library  Research + Data  Newsroom              Sign In  Please sign in to access member exclusive content.   Email Address *   Enter your username (email)    Password *   Enter your password.         Forgot Password?  Don't Have an Account? Register Now  Learn more about membership               Facts + Statistics: Mortality risk        Life + Health   IN THIS FACTS + STATISTICS   Odds of dying from accidental injuries Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1) The opioid crisis in the United States Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015 Health risks Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015     SHARE THIS             DOWNLOAD TO PDF                       Odds of dying from accidental injuries  The chart below shows the likelihood, or odds, of dying as a result of a specific type of accident. The odds of dying over a one-year period are based on the U.S. population as a whole, not on participants in any particular activity or on how dangerous that activity may be. For example, more people are killed in auto accidents than in motorcycle accidents or airplane crashes, not because riding a motorcycle or traveling in an airplane is more or less dangerous, but because far more people travel by car. Drug poisoning is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. The lifetime chances of dying from a drug or medication overdose were one in 96 in 2014, compared with about 1 in 645 in a car accident and 1 in 161,856 for fatal injuries caused by lightning.                      Odds Of Death In The United States By Selected Cause Of Injury, 2014 (1)               Cause of death  Number of deaths, 2014  One-year odds  Lifetime odds      Unintentional poisoning by and exposure to noxious substances  42,032  7,586  96    All motor vehicle accidents  35,398  9,008  114    Car occupants  6,274  50,822  645    Motorcycle riders  4,106  77,656  985    Pedestrian incident  6,258  50,952  647    Assault by firearm  10,945  29,133  370    Exposure to smoke, fire and flames  2,701  118,051  1,498    Fall on and from stairs and steps  2,285  139,544  1,771    Drowning and submersion while in or falling into swimming pool  701  454,860  5,772    Firearms discharge (accidental)  586  544,125  6,905    Fall on and from ladder or scaffolding  525  607,347  7,707    Air and space transport accidents  412  773,925  9,821    Earthquake and other earth movements  86  3,707,640  47,051    Cataclysmic storm (2)  61  5,227,165  66,335    Bitten or struck by dog  36  8,857,140  112,400    Lightning  25  12,754,282  161,856    Flood  8  39,857,132  505,801         (1) Based on fatalities and life expectancy in 2015. Ranked by deaths in 2014. (2) Includes hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, dust storms and other cataclysmic storms.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics; National Safety Council.      View Archived Tables       The odds of dying from an injury in 2014 were 1 in 1,576 according to the latest data available.  The lifetime odds of dying from an injury for a person born in 2014 were 1 in 20.  The odds of dying from drug poisoning were 1 in 7,586 in 2014; the lifetime odds were 1 in 96 for a person born in 2014.                      The opioid crisis in the United States  Opioid abuse and addiction is now recognized as a significant public health problem in the United States. Drug poisoning, from prescription and illegal drugs combined, is the leading cause of injury death in the United States. Between 1999 and 2015 deaths from drug poisoning more than tripled from 16,849 in 1999 to 52,404 in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Opioid analgesics, a group of prescription drugs that are used to alleviate chronic and acute pain, have been increasingly involved in the rise of drug overdose deaths over the same period. In 1999, there were 4,030 deaths attributed to opioid analgesics, accounting for 24 percent of all drug poisoning deaths. By 2014 deaths from opioid analgesics more than quadrupled to 18,893 and accounted for 40 percent of all drug poisoning deaths, according to the CDC.                  Number Of Drug Poisoning Deaths, 1999-2015         num_of_drug_poisoning_deaths_99-15.gif            (1) Drug poisoning caused by prescription and illegal drugs. (2) Prescription drugs used to alleviate chronic and acute pain.  Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics.        A June 2017 report issued by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association found that diagnoses of opioid-use disorder (addiction to opioids, including prescription painkillers and illegal narcotics such as heroin) increased almost 500 percent between 2010 and 2016.  The study examined claims from 30 million people who had commercial insurance provided by Blue Cross Blue Shield insurers. It found that opioid-use disorder was 40 times more likely in patients prescribed high doses for a short duration, compared with low doses for a short duration. Opioid-use disorder was seven times more likely when patients were prescribed a high dose for a long duration, rather than a low dose for a long duration. In addition, 21 percent of Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) commercially-insured members filled at least one opioid prescription in 2015, according to the report.                 Health risks  Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, accounting for 614,000 fatalities in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influenza and pneumonia ranked eighth in 2014, accounting for some 55,000 fatalities. However, pandemic influenza viruses have the potential to be far more deadly. An estimated 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic, the deadliest and most infectious known influenza strain to date.                  Top 15 Major Causes of Death, 2015                    Age-adjusted death rate (1)      Rank  Cause of death  Number of deaths  Rate  Percent change from 2014    1  Heart disease  633,842  168.5  0.9%    2  Malignant neoplasms (tumors)  595,930  158.5  -1.7    3  Chronic lower respiratory diseases  155,041  41.6  2.7    4  Accidents (unintentional injuries)  146,571  43.2  6.7    5  Cerebrovascular diseases (stroke)  140,323  37.6  3.0    6  Alzheimer's disease  110,561  29.4  15.7    7  Diabetes  79,535  21.3  1.9    8  Influenza and pneumonia  57,062  15.2  0.7    9  Kidney disease  49,959  13.4  1.5    10  Intentional self-harm (suicide)  44,193  13.3  2.3    11  Septicemia  40,773  11.0  2.8    12  Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis  40,326  10.8  3.8    13  Hypertension (3)  32,200  8.5  3.7    14  Parkinson's disease  27,972  7.7  4.1    15  Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids  19,803  5.3  3.9      All other causes  538,539  NA  NA      All deaths  2,712,630  733.1  1.2%         (1) Per 100,000 population; factors out differences based on age. (2) Less than 0.1 percent. (3) Essential (primary) hypertension and hypertensive renal disease.  NA=Not applicable.  Source: National Center for Health Statistics.      View Archived Tables      Back to top                       Connect With Us                Main  Insurance: The Basics  Research + Data  Resource Center    En Español  Conceptos Básicos de Seguros      Members  Learn More About Membership  Register for a Member Account      More  About the I.I.I.  Industry Directory  Permissions  Privacy Policy  Site Map  Terms of Use         © Copyright 2018, Insurance Information Institute, Inc. All Rights Reserved.               / Maggie Koerth-Baker / 6:51 am Mon  Nov 5, 2012          Surviving a plane crash is surprisingly common             From the Boing Boing Shop     See all deals           Follow Us  Twitter / Facebook / RSS       I'm a nervous flyer. But I'm a lot better at it then I used to be. That's because, a few years ago, I learned that it's actually pretty common to survive a plane crash. Like most people, I'd assumed that the safety in flying came from how seldom accidents happened. Once you were in a crash situation, though, I figured you were probably screwed. But that's not the case.  Looking at all the commercial airline accidents between 1983 and 2000, the National Transportation Safety Board found that 95.7% of the people involved survived. Even when they narrowed down to look at only the worst accidents, the overall survival rate was 76.6%. Yes, some plane crashes kill everyone on board. But those aren't the norm. So you're even safer than you think. Not only are crashes incredibly rare, you're more likely to survive a crash than not. In fact, out of 568 accidents during those 17 years, only 71 resulted in any fatalities at all.  I was talking about this fact with a pilot friend over the weekend, and he mentioned one crash in particular that is an excellent example of the statistics in action. On July 19, 1989, United Airlines Flight 232 lost all its hydraulic controls and landed in Sioux City, Iowa, going more than 100 mph faster than it should have been. You can see the plane breaking apart and bursting into flames in the video above. Turns out, that's what a 62% survival rate looks like. (All the pilots you can hear talking in the video survived, too.)  Read more about United Airlines 232 on Wikipedia  Read the full NTSB report from 2001  In 2007, Popular Mechanics examined 36 years of NTSB reports and found that the majority of surviving passengers were sitting in the back of the plane. But that seems to depend a lot on the specifics of the crash and may not be a reliable predictor of future results.  Thanks, Shav!    SHARE / TWEET / COMMENTS    airplanes / fear / risk / Safety / Science / statistics / Technology             GET THE BOING BOING NEWSLETTER                   Loading...        4K tour of the Moon   NASA posted this high-definition tour of the Moon, a perfectly serene antidote to the noise here on Earth. Take a virtual tour of the Moon in all-new 4K resolution, thanks to data provided by NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft. As the visualization moves around the near side, far side, north and south poles, we highlight […]  READ THE REST    Bathroom hand-dryers suck in poo-particles and aerosolize them all over you and everything else   A new study in Applied and Environmental Microbiology (Sci-Hub mirror) conducted microbial surveys of the bathrooms at the University of Connecticut (where the study's lead authors are based) to investigate whether hand-dryers were sucking in potentially infectious microbes and then spraying them all over everything, as had been observed in earlier studies. READ THE REST    Woman plays flute while undergoing brain surgery   Musician Anna Henry suffered from essential tremor, a movement disorder that causes shaky hands. As the conditioned worsened, it interfered with her flute playing. So she underwent a surgical procedure called deep brain stimulation to cure it. The Texas Medical Center surgeons implanted a battery pack in her chest that delivers tiny voltages to the […] READ THE REST     Take this complete Cisco certification training at a new lower drop   For the uninitiated, Cisco is a worldwide leader in networking systems and solutions, and, as such, carrying a certification backed by them can fast-track your way to a coveted IT position in virtually any company. Of course, passing any of Cisco’s certification exams is no easy feat, but the Ultimate Cisco Certification Super Bundle can make the […]  READ THE REST    This three-track course will help you learn Six Sigma   It’s no mystery that project managers can make a pretty penny helping companies big and small cut costs and boost efficiency. But, despite the demand, you’ll have a hard time getting your foot in the door if you’re not carrying the appropriate certifications. There are a host of project management methodologies you can get certified […]  READ THE REST    HideMyAss! VPN does exactly what its name implies   In an age where net neutrality is far from a guarantee, VPNs have become a staple for users looking to make sure their online activity stays private. However, one of the biggest complaints about these services is that they slow your browsing speed to a crawl while keeping your online activity under the radar. HideMyAss! VPN is […]  READ THE REST            Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service .  We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.   Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines .  Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted.       Mark Frauenfelder  Cory Doctorow  David Pescovitz  Xeni Jardin  Rob Beschizza  Jason Weisberger Publisher  Ken Snider Sysadmin   About Us   Contact Us   Advertise   Forums   Shop   Shop Support                                        Elite Daily Bad Robot The Odds Of A Plane Crash Are One In 11 Million, Yet You're Still Afraid By John Haltiwanger Mar 25 2015 Share Are you flying somewhere today? Feeling somewhat nervous about it? You have absolutely no reason to be worried; probability is on your side. Grab some peanuts, put your headphones in, sit back and relax. The airplane has revolutionized our existence. It has cut journeys that used to take weeks and months into just a few hours. It's also extremely safe, but people continue to fear it. A recent plane crash in the French Alps may have increased people's anxieties. Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed on Tuesday not long before 11 am. Tragically, everyone on board, 144 passengers and six crew members, died in the process. Germanwings is now a trending topics on social media and will undoubtedly continue to be discussed in the coming weeks. Along with "Pretty Little Liars" and Angelina Jolie, it's currently one of the top subjects people are searching for, Google Trends reveals . We are both terrified of and fascinated by death, particularly when it happens in unusual ways. The likelihood of dying in a plane crash (or even being in one) is so slim it's almost pointless to quantify. According to The Economist , the probability of your plane going down is around one in 5.4 million. Other reports place the odds closer to one in 11 million . To put this into perspective, you are far more likely to be struck by lightning or attacked by a shark than you are to die in a plane crash. And there are even more common things that kill decidedly more frequently, including the flu . Traveling by car is 100 times more deadly than hopping on a plane. Not to mention, statistically, it's never been safer to fly . Perhaps this helps explain why we become so captivated by plane crashes when they do occur; they're just so incredibly rare. At the same time, media coverage of these sorts of events is undeniably excessive and hyperbolic. This trend is driven by a desire for increased viewership and profits. Does this say more about the media or more about us? It's a two-way street: Major news networks consistently report on tragedies because they know the public will pay attention. In 2014, plane crashes often dominated the news. From the mysterious disappearance of MH370 to the tragic crash of Air Asia Flight 8501 in December, there were eight fatal plane crashes over the course of the year. In total, commercial airline accidents killed 992 people across the globe in 2014, the most since 2005, Vice reports . But if you look at data surrounding airplane crashes in a broader sense, they have decreased exponentially over time, as highlighted by the Guardian . And at this point last year, there had already been 33 plane crashes . As of the Germanwings crash, the number for 2015 stands at 17 . It's also very telling that in 2014, airplane crashes received 43 percent more media attention than the 1.24 million ground traffic fatalities that occur across the world every year, as noted by the Washington Post. Interestingly, research has shown that the habitual coverage of plane crashes hasn't necessarily served to increase fears of flying , but it certainly hasn't helped deter them, either . Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects around 6.5 percent of the population, ABC news reports . A survey from Chapman University suggests that 43 percent of people have at least some fear of flying, and around 9 percent are so afraid they won't even step foot on a plane. The fear is so ubiquitous there's even an iPhone app called "Am I Going Down?," which helps calculate how likely it is your flight will crash. Thankfully, it usually helps reveal how low the probability is: With that said, none of this information will serve to comfort the loved ones of those who died on the Germanwings flight. Perhaps they would find some relief, however, if they weren't inundated with images of the place those closest to them perished. Should there be a discussion surrounding why this plane crashed? Absolutely. But that doesn't require 24/7 coverage of the crash site. At any given moment over the course of the next 24 hours, people will die from poverty, famine, disease, war and other forms of abhorrent violence. Simultaneously, we face the ongoing effects of climate change and inequality. Perhaps we should refocus our obsession onto these kinds of issues. It would be nice to live in a world where issues are granted attention based on their everyday impact and imminence, rather than their potential to generate profits in correlation with the whims of a fickle public. Maybe that's just wishful thinking, but it's certainly still something to think about. Citations: Why Are We So Obsessed With Plane Crashes (Vice) , Aircraft accident rates at historic low despite high profile plane crashes (The Guardian ) , Germanwings plane crash What we know so far (CNN) , Theres an app to calculate the odds of your plane crashing (Quartz) , How safe is air travel really (The Guardian) , A crash course in probability (The Economist) , Fear of flying some good things to know (ABC News) , After Air Algerie AH5017 Incident A Statistical Look At The Probability And Chances of Dying In A Plane Crash (International Business Times) , Flash Facts About Lightning (National Geographic) , Shark Attack Facts (National Geographic ) , Deaths and Mortality (CDC) , Lots of Americans fear flying But not because of plane crashes (Washington Post) Homepage Fashion & Beauty News Entertainment Life Dating Video Company About Contact Newsletter Terms Privacy                                    search     close           search      trending_up  Trending      email  Subscribe      headset  Podcast      menu           Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Science & Technology     add More      Sign in    trending_up      email      headset      menu                   close           Connect with Facebook        Connect with Google          Connect with Twitter     or continue with email      Register    Login                     Forgot Password?                   By clicking the "Create New Account" button, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .          Sign in   close       Amazing Places    Brilliant Products    Food & Culture    Mind & Body    Personal Growth    Explore Subjects          close      Download the free app           headset The Curiosity Podcast       mail_outline Newsletter     shopping_cart Shop         chat Bots     laptop_chromebook Smart Tab                                                            About  Contact  Press  Jobs  Team  Blog  Creators  Advertise  Privacy  Terms               Airplanes  How Do People Survive Plane Crashes?     August 2, 2017    Edited by   Ben Bowman                               Share                                                    Since Wilbur and Orville Wright first took to the skies in 1903, virtually everyone who has ridden in a plane has considered what might happen if the thing falls out of the sky. What are the odds of surviving a plane crash? Although more than 40 percent of passengers report fear of being involved in a plane crash, the odds are in our favor. Statistically speaking, a person would have to take a flight every day for 55,000 years before encountering a fatal accident. You are literally more likely to be killed by a falling coconut.                                          So You're Sayin' There's a Chance         In 2016, 325 people died in 19 airplane crashes worldwide. That might seem like a lot, but more than 2,500 left-handed people are killed every year from using equipment meant for right-handed people. Despite big-budget Hollywood films' depictions of plane crashes, flying is actually the safest mode of transportation. In fact, the odds of a plane crash are one for every 1.2 million flights, with odds of dying one in 11 million. Your chances of dying in a car or traffic accident are one in 5,000. Even if you're reading this on an airplane while you're rocketing toward the ground, your odds of surviving are quite good. Among passengers aboard crashed planes, 95.7 percent survive. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board, even passengers of the most devastating airplane crashes survive at a rate of 76 percent. Despite its safety, air travel malfunctions can cause passenger distress, and on rare occasion, result in a crash. So what can you do to prepare yourself, if anything? What boosts our odds for survival? And what happens when a plane actually does crash? Buckle in for these videos: a worst-case scenario survival guide.                           How To Survive a Plane Crash   Watch the simulation of an emergency evacuation.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         Learning how to survive a plane crash     – AP Archive                     What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?   Luckily, not very high.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         What Are The Chances Of Being In A Plane Crash?     – DNews                           This Woman Survived a Horrific Plan Crash And Lived To Tell   Hear what it's like from someone who has been through it.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         This Woman Survived a Horrific Plane Crash and Lived to Tell     – Smithsonian Channel             25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History   When they happen, they can be devastating.              Share the knowledge!     Share                                              fast_rewind Watch Again         25 Worst Aviation Disasters And Plane Crashes In History     – list25              Edited by   Ben Bowman   August 2, 2017            Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline              Read More from Curiosity     For A Cosmic Memorial, Shoot Your Loved One's Ashes Into Space       In A Ghost Marriage, Both Bride And Groom Are Deceased                                 Tags   Disasters  Flight               Wake up with the smartest email in your inbox.  Our Best Articles Daily     Smart choice!  You just joined millions of people that love getting smarter every day. Your first email will arrive shortly.     mail_outline                                           Home  Communities  Create  Shop                                       21 Things More Likely Than Dying In A Plane Crash  You're more likely to win an Olympic gold medal or get hit by a meteorite.     Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016                              17726  views                             17726  views          comments             With the recent disappearance of EgyptAir flight 804, the
fear of flying has reawakened within many Americans. With stories of vanishing planes in mind, Americans may find themselves wondering if something like that could happen to them. Aviophobia, or the fear of flying, affects roughly 20 million people worldwide, and is a very understandable fear. The idea of being left helpless in an
emergency situation that occurs 30,000 feet above the ground is terrifying. When you decide to board a
plane, you lose control over your fate. If an accident did strike, you would have
no way to help yourself or to escape the situation! Very scary stuff to think about. However, to keep things in perspective, your chances of being in a plane
crash are extremely low, 1 in 11 million , to be exact. The odds of experiencing
one of the following are much more likely. 1. Being born with an extra finger or toe 1 in 500. 2. Becoming President of the United States 1 in 10 million. ( I'll admit that your chances are slim, but it is still more likely than dying in a plane crash.) 3. Getting killed from a meteorite 1 in 700,000. 4. Giving birth to conjoined twins 1 in 200,000. 5.  Winning an Oscar 1 in 11,500. 6. Dying from a bee sting 1 in 79,842. 7. Winning an Olympic gold medal 1 in 662,000. (Assuming you can qualify for the Olympics first…) 8. Dying from a flesh-eating bacteria 1 in a million. 9. Drowning in your bathtub 1 in 840,000. 10.  Dating a millionaire 1 in 215. (Might just drop out of college and play the odds on this one.) 11. Getting murdered 1 in 18,000. 12. Getting killed by a bear at Yellowstone National Park 1 in 2.1 million. 13. Dating a supermodel 1 in 88,000. 14. Writing a New York Times bestseller 1 in 220. 15. Having your ID stolen 1 in 465. 16. Dying in a tornado 1 in 60,000. 17. Getting poisoned 1 in 1,400. 18. Dying in a skydiving accident 1 in 100,000. 19. Becoming a nudist 1 in 6,000. 20. Meeting someone who speaks Cherokee 1 in 15,000. 21. Living to 100 years old 1 in 3.      Cover Image Credit: Premium Times                               Brianna Hansen   Brianna Hansen  May 23, 2016          At Brigham Young University Idaho     Popular Right Now             You May Have Worn The Prom Dress With Him, But I Get To Wear The Wedding Dress   by Victoria Higgins            The End Of The Semester As Told By Joey Tribbiani   by Caleigh Pittman            To The Nursing Major   by Morgan Leigh Jackson             Welcome new, meaningful ideas to your inbox.  Sign up for our weekly newsletter.    Thank you for signing up! Check your inbox for the latest from Odyssey.  This is not a valid email, please try again.                           6 Differences Between Denmark And The United States  While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark.     Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018                             19  views                             19  views          comments         Over spring break, I traveled to the beautiful country of Denmark. While I have traveled to other countries, none of them have been as different as Denmark. Here are a list of things that I noticed were different in the United States. 1. Everything is so much more expensive. I've already talked about this a little in a previous article I have written, but when I say this place is expensive, I mean it. A bottle of water in America is around $1.50 to $2.00. I bought a bottle of water in Denmark and it was upwards to $5.00. If you are planning a trip to Denmark, make sure to budget accordingly. Make sure you figure out what you want to spend your money on. I suggest getting an Airbnb and grocery shopping for breakfasts, lunches, or dinners. Eating in restaurants will add up really quickly. Try putting that money towards museums and other entertainment. Oh, also, public transportation is amazing, but also very, very expensive. Try to use the train as little as possible. Maybe rent a car or a bike, if you're just planning on staying in Copenhagen. But, if you are traveling around the country, consider a bus. Gas prices are, you guessed it, way more expensive in Denmark. Do your research about the cheapest ways to get around, depending on the cities or towns you'd like to visit. 2. The people are friendly, but not in the way you're used to. Danish people get a horrible reputation. If you have read anything about the Danes, you've probably read they are rude and unfriendly. That is the furthest from the truth. The Danes are so willing to help and will never give you the cold shoulder. However, do not expect the overly friendly type of people you'd find in America. They are willing to give you directions and help you out if you're confused, but you must approach them first. They do not talk to strangers first but will have no problem answering a question. Just don't small talk or ask them anything too personal. They like their privacy. Also, most of the Danes speak excellent English, so there is no trouble there. 3. The food is... interesting. I didn't hate the food. I actually liked the food a lot more than the food in Ireland, but it is not Italian cuisine. A lot of fish, egg, and mayo. Oh, and hotdogs. Don't be afraid to try it. Trust me, it is not as bad as it looks. I had a burger with what is called "red salad," which is just basically cranberries. Yes, you heard right. A burger with cranberries. Also, there was no beef on this burger. It was a type of slimy pork. It wasn't the best thing I have ever had, but it was an experience nevertheless. If you ever visit, you have to try the open faced sandwiches! The Danes swear by them. 4. Teenagers are allowed to drink and they are allowed to drink on the streets. The drinking age in Denmark is 15. Which means you'll get to see teenagers running around with beer cans just on the street. Denmark doesn't have a law against drinking in public, so it is completely legal and normal. Don't get too freaked out. I was in Aalborg and saw a group of people playing a drinking game right in a public park. You don't have to join the trend, but just try to act as normal as possible around it. The Danes think it's rude if you stare or are too judgmental. 5. Bikes are everywhere. In any of the major cities: Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg, etc, you will see more bikes than cars. So much so, there is a specific bike lane for bikers. It is the size of a road. Biking is the cheapest and fastest way to get around in Denmark. Plus, everyone really does care about the environment. Bikes has just become the most used form of transportation. When in Copenhagen, rent a bike. It is the best way to see the city. Remember to look for bikes too! They go faster than the cars and will not be happy about you walking in the bike lane. It is not a sidewalk. 6. Denmark is so safe. I'm not saying America isn't safe, but what I am saying, is people in Denmark leave their babies outside in a stroller while they are in a restaurant and this is normal. Their baby. Outside. And they aren't worried about someone kidnapping them. That is how safe this place is. Story time: I lost my wallet while I was in Aarhus. I got a call from Kent State the next day saying someone had found it and wanted to return in. A Dane literally contacted Kent State after seeing my flashcard wanting to return my wallet, which had cash and my credit cards in it. When I got it back, everything was still inside. Including old receipts. When I say this place is safe, I mean it's safe. Denmark is such a beautiful country and if you ever have the chance, visit. It's worth the many pennies.    Cover Image Credit: Photo by Max Adulyanukosol on Unsplash    Keep Reading                        Allison Music   Allison Music  Apr 10, 2018          At Kent State University       Related Content                      A Letter To Who We Can't Forget No Matter How Hard We Try   by Alyssa Taylor            4 Haunted Places In America   by Aubrielle Cuccuini            Poetry On Odyssey: "Eiffel"   by Kaitlyn Eichenbaum          Connect with a generation of new voices.  We are students, thinkers, influencers, and communities sharing our ideas with the world. Join our platform to create and discover content that actually matters to you.  Learn more  Start Creating                The Ultimate Travel Guide: Prague  Thinking about visiting the Czech Republic's iconical capital city? Here's what you need to know.     Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018                             216  views                             216  views          comments         A beautiful and unique city known for everything ranging from its rich history to its active nightlife, Prague is a gem in the heart of the Czech Republic that cannot be missed. Located in the northwest of the Czech Republic, Prague has a beauty that can only be understood by traveling to the city itself. Before starting my trip to Europe, I asked the advice of several other travelers about which destinations they recommend that I travel to. High on the list of many of these travelers was Prague. With so many recommendations, I simply had to visit. But what makes this city such a favorite among both travelers and its inhabitants? To start with, I found the people of the Czech Republic to be very kind to their visitors; they wanted to share the country that they love so much with anyone who is willing to take the time to visit. As far as activities go, exploring Prague without a map was one of my favorite experiences in the city. The day I arrived, I decided to wander around in search of food. In the process, I was able to get a glimpse of some of the famous architecture around the city, as well as some of its most iconic sights. After returning to my hostel, I was able to do some research into the history of these locations while also planning out the places I wanted to spend more time with. As far as specific attractions go, Prague is a perfect city to visit no matter your time frame. With that being said, a few of the most prominent and worthwhile attractions include the Charles Bridge, all of Old Town, Wenceslas Square, Petrin Hills, and Prague Castle. The main sights can be seen in a tour around the city in a day (which requires a ton of walking), but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t spend any more time there. Now let’s pretend you have just arrived in Prague and you are eager to see everything you can in just one walking journey. Doing this, I would suggest starting in Wenceslas Square and walking down the slope towards Old Town. A walk through Old Town takes you through the picturesque streets of Prague, while also allowing you to visit the Astronomical Tower, the Old Town Square, and St. Nicolas’ Church; all of which are well worth it if you find yourself in Prague. After seeing these iconic sights, wandering towards the Jewish Quarter of the city provides an opportunity to learn some of the history of the city through the years. From there, walk towards the river to see the concert hall known as Rudolfinum while listening to music written by Czech composers that you might not recognize by name, but you will recognize by their music. Walk along the Vltava River towards the Charles Bridge where you should take your time to take in the atmosphere and the unique architecture of the bridge as well as the views of Old Town and Prague Castle as they face off across the river. This walk brings you to the other side of the river where you can see the somewhat surprising Lennon Wall as well as taking a trip to Prague Castle. This walking trip provides an opportunity to see most major sights in Prague. Like with any city, it is possible to go into more detail if you so desire, and Prague is a city that deserves that extra attention. There are museums and historical sites littered throughout the city, and they are not hard to find. I visited the National Technical Museum in a quieter part of the city and I was blown away by the size and level of detail that the museum provided. Anyone with enough interest could spend a full day exploring every detail. In addition to that, the Jewish museum in the Jewish Quarter is well known and has the reputation of being very good, but I did not have the time to visit it, unfortunately. The Prague Castle allows for entry that is free of charge, but a ticket is required to visit some parts of the complex. Purchase of this ticket depends on the level of detail you wish to go into, and the amount of time you have to spend there. The activity that I highly recommend is taking a trip to the Petrin Hills where you can buy a ticket to ascend Petrin Tower where the views of the city are simply breathtaking. These examples stand as just a few options for ideas on how to make your trip to Prague as complete as you can want. After taking a walk around the city to see all of the sights, taking the public transportation provides for a welcome rest from all of the walking. The transportation is cheap and cost is based on time which makes it perfect for travelers who want unlimited travel for just a few days. As far as additional public transportation goes, taxis can be found throughout the city, but be sure to find a good price. In many instances, getting an Uber will be far more convenient and allow for the best possible price. The Czech Republic is a beautiful country and its capital city is the culmination of the country’s beauty. Prague is a city that should be on every traveler’s list for its uniqueness, its culture, and its people.    Cover Image Credit: Jacob Mitchener   Keep Reading                        Jacob Mitchener   Jacob Mitchener  Apr 9, 2018          At University of Maryland College Park       Related Content                          The Value Of Travel Is Not In The Pretty Pictures We Take   by Linnea Shapter            Terror Within The Walls: Hauntings Of Eastern State Penitentiary   by Grace Kinnicutt            Everyone Should Go To Osaka To Find Some Peace And Quiet   by Erin O’Donnell                           Facebook Comments            Home  Communities  Create  Shop   Apply to create for Odyssey    About Odyssey  Service Desk  Careers  Odyssey Community  Terms of Service  DMCA Report  Privacy Policy  Copyright Policy                                              share        Trending         Tech  #WhoaScience            Tech  #WhoaScience   Mar 14, 2017 @ 12:10 PM           If My Airplane Crashes, What Are My Chances Of Survival?                       Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google                 Quora    ,      Contributor        Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.                    Photographer: Gill Allen/Bloomberg News      What are the chances of surviving in a plane crash? originally appeared on Quora : the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world .  Answer by Tom Farrier , Retired USAF rescue helicopter pilot; current aviation safety contractor (UAS), on Quora :  Ignore Hollywood. Aircraft involved in crashes are safer than at any time in history, thanks to decades of experience, research, and safety enhancements. According to Aviation Safety Network , in 2016 there were about one hundred and sixty three aviation “accidents” worldwide, including those involving business jets and military transports as well as jet and propeller airliners. A grand total of twenty-four resulted in fatalities, meaning only about 15% of all accidents in this grouping — which themselves are extremely rare events — actually resulted in lives being lost.    (FYI, only five of the fatal 2016 accidents were in the U.S, and none involved a major U.S. air carrier.)  Consider four possible outcomes to any crash:   You survive a survivable accident;  You survive a non-survivable accident;   You don’t survive a survivable accident; or  You don’t survive a non-survivable accident.   So, what the heck is a “survivable accident,” anyway? Well, to synthesize a couple of different takes on the subject, most in the aviation safety business (as well as those interested in other types of vehicle safety), look for three conditions:   The forces encountered by human occupants were within the limits of human tolerance;  The structure surrounding occupants remains substantially intact, maintaining an uncompromised volume around them; and  The post-crash environment does not present an immediate threat to occupants or rescuers.   In practical terms, this means directing forces away from people, slowing the onset of those that can’t be re-directed, preventing internal structures from failing in such a way as to stuck into the area where the carbon-based life forms are, and keeping the fire, smoke and fumes from easily starting or readily spreading. On this basis, you can see that a smoking hole in the ground is non-survivable, and there’s always a possibility that a small number of people don’t get the full benefit of protections that rendered the overall accident to be considered “survivable.” But, there are many, many examples to the contrary in events classified as “accidents” due to property damage and/or major injuries experienced in them.  In February of 2001, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board released the results of a comprehensive review of air carrier safety. They noted, “Fatal accidents such as TWA flight 800, ValuJet flight 592, and EgyptAir 990 receive extensive media coverage. Nonfatal accidents, however, often receive little coverage. As a result, the public may perceive that most air carrier accidents are not survivable. In fact, the Board's study shows that since 1983, more than 95% of the passengers survived.” (That includes accident where, given the criteria above, the accident itself should have been considered “non-survivable.)  A large contributor to this record goes to the many improvements the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration required of air carriers over time. These included:   Improved seat cushions with reduced flammability.  Floor proximity emergency escape path marking.  Lavatory smoke detectors.  Lavatory fire extinguishers.  Halon fire extinguishers.  Improved interior materials.  Cargo compartment liners.  Cargo compartment fire detection/suppression.  Thermal/acoustic insulation.  16G seats.  Improved access to certain types of exits.   (These are expanded upon in a graphic available at FAA Fact Sheet: Improvements to Aircraft Survivability ).  If you keep passengers properly restrained until the noise dies down and the movement stops, you reduce the likelihood of a fire starting in the first place, you delay its propagation, and you make the by-products of burning stuff less toxic, you have a much better chance of keeping everybody alive.  This was Air France 358, following a landing that went bad at Toronto-Pearson International Airport in 2005:  (Photo: CBS.com )   (Photo: blogto.com )  Everybody lived.  This was Asiana Airlines 214, which hit the sea wall in front of the runway touchdown zone on short final to San Francisco International on July 6, 2013:  (Photo: KTVU.com )  People were ejected from this aircraft during its post-impact tumble and break-up, but two of the only three people who died were accidentally struck by first responders in the confusion. There were many significant injuries suffered by the crew and passengers, but the aircraft did what it was supposed to do under extreme conditions — it protected its occupants as well as it possibly could, and it didn’t allow fire to spread until there was time to get everyone evacuated.  Bottom line: accidents are rare; when they happen, fatalities are that much rarer thanks to a lot of hard work and investment in making planes as safe as possible.  This question originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter , Facebook , and Google+ . More questions:   Airplanes : What happens when someone dies on a plane?  Air Travel : Why do airliners have engines under the wings rather than inside the fuselage?  Aviation Accidents and Incidents : What happened to the Flight MH370?                  Share to email      Share to facebook      Share to twitter      Share to linkedin      Share to google           Print    Website Feedback    News Tip    Report Corrections    Reprints & Permissions                    Information is Beautiful information is beautiful Reduce Your Chances of Dying in a Plane Crash Sections about blog data books training contact  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Connect facebook twitter instagram pinterest RSS feed facebook twitter instagram RSS feed Search Search E.g: Billion dollar-o-gram Based on a true story Mountains out of molehills Categories interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Popular Rhetological Fallacies - A list of Logical Fallacies & Rhetorical Devices with examples What Streaming Music Services Pay World's Best Hangover Cure? Biggest Fake News Stories of 2017 Ikigai - Japanese concept to enhance work, life & sense of worth Cause Célèbre - Gender Split Behind Celebrity Charitable Giving & Causes Best Albums of 2017: The Consensus: Infographic Star Wars 'Last Jedi': One of the Biggest Rotten Tomatoes Audience vs Critics Score Splits Ever UK's Brexit Divorce Bill-ions Tooth & Law - What's halal? What's kosher? The UK's Brexit Options in the Eurozone Landscape - Visualized UK Government Spending - Incomes & Outcomes  Follow  Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Enter your email address to get spam-free viz updates straight to your inbox!  License this image → Follow us on Facebook → Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Share this  Facebook  3,204  Twitter   StumbleUpon  6,254  Pinterest  141  Reddit  1 Email Related visualizations Mavericks & Heretics What is Consciousness Cocktails – Interactive Oil Well – Static Version Extreme Global Warming Solutions Currently on the Table Making data into art Sources The Guardian Datablog: Most Popular Airliners , Ascend Worldwide , AviationSafety.net , Wikipedia: List Of Accidents On Commercial Airliners , Flowing Data: Safest Seat To Sit In See the data http://bit.ly/IIB_PlaneCrash Subjects how to science Older Drugs World  Newer Caffeine and Calories  Trending interactive belief food health ideas science web-tech  Knowledge is Beautiful: "Thought-provoking as well as startlingly attractive" - Wall Street Journal Never miss another beautiful graphic Subscribe Follow @infobeautiful  Menu Home About Contact Our Picks Living data Buy our books Interactive More IIB Awards David McCandless VizSweet Follow  Information is Beautiful © 2007 — 2018Breaking News Travel + Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos U.S. World Politics Money Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Video VR Live TV Search » U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S.  Edition + U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm Facebook Twitter Instagram 'Am I Going Down?' New app analyzes odds of your flight crashing By Karla Cripps , CNN Updated 9:49 AM ET, Fri January 23, 2015 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. New app "Am I Going Down?" uses aviation statistics to analyze the odds a flight will crash. Story highlights Am I Going Down? app is aimed at people who suffer from a fear of flying Creator says his app will show nervous fliers that air travel is typically very low risk (CNN) If you're flying on a Boeing 777 Cathay Pacific flight from Hong Kong to Los Angeles on any given day, there's a one in 4,068,434 chance that your plane will crash. At least that's what a new app called "Am I Going Down?" says. That means if you take that flight every day for the next 11,146 years, you'll be unlikely to experience an incident. Created by London-based company Vanilla Pixel, the app uses real flight statistics to analyze flight safety, Developer Nic Johns says it's geared toward those who are uneasy about air travel. Read More "The initial inspiration comes from my co-founder and wife, Julie, who for many years has suffered from a fear of flying," says Johns. "In developing 'Am I Going Down?' I wanted to present the fact that the vast majority of flights are incredibly low risk. Our app is meant as tool to help reassure fearful fliers." Johns says more than 10 million routes have been assessed using data from sources such as the Geneva-based Bureau of Aircraft Accidents Archives, the United States National Transportation Safety Board and the Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization. "For my analysis I only include crashes where there was at least one passenger fatality -- which is the relevant stat for those with a fear of flying," says Johns. "I then incorporate the volume of flights, weighted to the most recent 10 years, to provide the final 'one in a million' statistics." Bad timing? Johns admits the timing of the release of the app was awkward, given that it came out just days after AirAsia flight QZ8501 went down. The developer says it was an unfortunate coincidence. "I actually developed the app in February 2014, shortly before the Malaysia Airlines MH370 disappearance," says Johns. "Due to that I postponed the release and worked on a few other things, then finalized and submitted it to Apple in December. The AirAsia QZ8501 flight crashed two weeks later. "There have been a few raised eyebrows but most people know it was a coincidence." The "Am I Going Down?" app, now available in iTunes, costs $0.99. It's only available on Apple at the moment though if the app is successful, an Android version is a possibility for the future, says Johns. "The positive response from anxious fliers has been amazing, really encouraging," says Johns. Content by LendingTree Experts are urging Americans to refinance in 2018  Pay off your house with this insane trick  How much could you save by refinancing?  Eliminate your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed  Mortgage Payoff Trick Eliminates Up to 15 Years of Payments  Paid Partner Content MyFinance Two savings accounts that pay 10 times what your bank pays  Bankrate CD rates skyrocket - Lock in your rate today  MyFinance How to 10x your savings with these new accounts  Furthermore from Equinox 5 minutes to better sleep  The Motley Fool Bitcoin up 30,000X -- here's your backdoor in  Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Europe Middle East 45 Congress Security The Nine Trumpmerica 2018 Markets Tech Media Personal Finance Luxury Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Vital Signs Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Business Culture Gadgets Future Startups Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Shop CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource                                                                    Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express.         Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter                 Login    Register          Apps  Puzzles  Horoscopes  Shop  Paper      13 °C         HOME   News    Showbiz & TV    Sport    Comment    Finance    Travel    Entertainment    Life & Style      Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News   Home Travel Travel News Flight secrets reveal why THIS part of the flight is the most dangerous                Flight secrets reveal why THIS part of the flight is the most dangerous  PLANE crashes are very rare, but they are most likely to occur during this time of the flight.    By Kara Godfrey     PUBLISHED:  11:09, Sat, Nov 4, 2017  | UPDATED: 16:33, Sat, Nov 4, 2017            Getty A plane is most likely to crash during this part of the flight Plane crashes are very rare, with flying being one of the safest ways to travel. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) found that in 2016, there was an average of one accident for every 2.86 million flights. With the odds of being killed in flight one in 11 million (compared to one in 5,000 for car accidents), many have nothing to fear regarding air travel. Despite this, there are two moments during a flight that plane crashes are much more likely.   Related articles       Can turbulence make a plane fall out of the sky?       WATCH: Plane COLLIDES with two cars after crash landing on busy ROAD        Plane crashes are most likely during the first three minutes and last eight minutes of the flight    Plane crashes are most likely during the first three minutes and last eight minutes of the flight. Called the Plus Three Minus Eight rule, statistically, this is the most dangerous time, according to a Ben Sherwood, author of "The Survivors Club — The Secrets and Science That Could Save Your Life”. People are advised to follow the rule by not doing anything to hinder their escape, such as listening to music, taking their shoes off or falling asleep. After that, the likelihood of a plane crash is much lower and people can relax into the flight.     The most shocking plane crashes in the world  Tue, August 1, 2017  You're more likely to die driving your car, but that doesn't stop a lot of us being terrified of planes. Looking through these photos, you can see why          Play slideshow        Popperfoto/Getty Images   1 of 11    Plane crashes that shocked the world, including the terrifying story of the Andes flight disaster              Getty A plane is most likely to crash during take-off and landing It isn’t the only thing that could save a passengers life. A yellow hook on the wing of a plane can be spotted through the plane window, which has often baffled travellers. It has been revealed that it is used to tether ropes to in the case of an emergency landing, one to the emergency door and one to the inflatable slide. The two holed tool could end up saving lives.       Getty Plane passengers should always listen to the safety demonstations One cabin crew member has told the story of why he ended up quitting her job, after a plane crash fear. A self-proclaimed psychic was onboard during one of the flight attendants trips, who screamed: “This plane is going to crash and we’re all going to f*****g die.” They moved her to a private part of the plane, to prevent her from scaring other passengers. What happens next is terrifying.          Related articles      What are the chances of a mid-air collision on a flight?     Flashing seatbelt sign means THIS terrifying problem     Why don’t planes fly over Antarctica?       Travel News                                           Latest videos        The Chase: Anne Hegerty jibes at Bradley Walsh after he slams contestant 'Ridiculous!'         Yulia Skripal: Will Putin demand Russian's return or will she flee to the USA?         World Cup 2018 CARNAGE: Fears Nazi loving Russian ultras ready to BRUTALISE England fans         'This is a wake up call' Germany urges EU to thrash out Brexit agreement with UK         Ashley Graham Instagram: Star jiggles pert derriere in racy swimwear clip with her mum, 53                                   Titanic brochure and intact ticket from doomed liner emerges for sale          How long do you spend planning a holiday? Research suggests it could be costing you          Google Earth: Giant target spotted in Nevada desert - but what is it aiming at?          Cheap car hire: This is how you can rent a car in Europe For £1 a day          Revealed: Four simple breathing tricks to steady your pre-flight nerves          Universal Orlando Resort expects visitor surge after Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway          Revealed: The world’s busiest airport - which UK airport made the list?          Croatian tourism to face challenging year, although visitors are on the up          REVEALED: Which UK airlines have the most legroom in economy class?          ‘Disruptive’ passenger fined £2,500 after Ryanair flight forced to U-turn back to the UK            Mayor considers charging day-trippers for this popular European city break destination          Google Maps Street View captures ‘dismembered’ legs in Alaska          WATCH: Bad driver slams into bike rider - only for this to happen next          Queen Elizabeth has never visited THESE Commonwealth countries on a state visit          Avios points travel scheme CLOSING - can you still spend your points?          Lufthansa cancels 800 flights in Germany - with 90,000 passengers affected            UK’s worst cities for traffic congestion in pictures - does your city make the list?          WATCH: Shocking moment tipper truck falls catapulting the driver          Foreign travel advice: Myanmar introduces fast-track visa approval 365 days a year          Norwegian Cruise Line passengers receive free trip after enduring '16 days of hell’          Google Earth: Mystery structure spotted in the ocean - is THIS the lost city of Atlantis?          Revealed: The cheapest destination for a short city break can be found in Eastern Europe          WATCH: Bad driver brakes on busy motorway after missing exit - causing THIS to happen          Heathrow Terminal 1 is auctioning off its entire contents - how to own a piece of history          Britons are over-tipping by £78 because they don’t understand local tipping etiquette          Flight news: You could be entitled to compensation if you missed a flight connection            Hotel news: This is why hoteliers in Spain's Balearics are being forced to slash prices          Flight news: Man sues this airline after landing at the wrong airport          Cabin crew reveal why you should NEVER use the pillow on a plane          Tunisia holidays: Are they really safe? Latest travel update for 2018 British holiday          Camilla Duchess of Cornwall doesn’t always travel with Prince Charles due to this reason          Immigration map shows how the UK has DOUBLED in just thirty years                      SEARCH          CONNECT WITH US    Find us on Facebook    Follow us on Twitter    Check us on Google+    Subscribe to our rss feed      TODAY'S PAPER       Tuesday, 10th April 2018  See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
                    order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
                    newspaper archive.          News    UK  World  Weather  Politics  Royal  Science  Weird  Nature  Sunday  Scotland  History  Obituaries        Latest News    Brexit  European Union  Theresa May  Angela Merkel  Donald Trump  The Queen  Kate Middleton  Meghan Markle  Diesel  Cancer  Diabetes  Dementia  YouTube      Showbiz & TV    TV & Radio  Celebrity News        Sport    Football  Stats  Transfer news  Premier League  Manchester United  Liverpool  Arsenal  Chelsea  Tottenham Hotspur  Manchester City  West Ham  Everton  Celtic  Rangers  Golf  F1  Boxing  Tennis  UFC  Cricket  Rugby Union  Racing        Pictures    Pics  Celebrity Galleries  Royal Galleries  Sport Galleries      Comment    Express Comment  Columnists  Beachcomber      Finance    City & Business  Personal Finance  The Crusader  Retirement      Travel    Cruise  Activity Holidays  Beach Holidays  Short & City breaks  Travel News      Entertainment    Films  Gaming  Theatre  Books  Music  Puzzles        Life & Style    Life  Style  Health  Cars  Garden  Food  Property  Diets  Tech  Saturday  Win  S Mag  Top 10 Facts      EXPRESS.CO.UK    Sitemap  Site Archive  Contact Us  Report a Tech Issue  Advertising  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Terms & Conditions  Developed by Netro42  Syndication and Licensing  Clarifications and Corrections          Daily Star    OK! Magazine    new! Magazine    Star Magazine    Copyright ©2018 Express Newspapers.
            "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.                                                               Skip to content   Menu  Home Home About Statistic Brain Business Marketing Industries Companies Media People Entertainment Music Film Finance Financial Salaries Geographic Crime Government Geographic Food Demographic Demographic Education Health Technology Physical Technology Internet & Websites Sports Football Baseball Basketball Other Sports               Airplane Crash Statistics  Posted on May 23, 2017 May 24, 2017 by seth  Share This Data Airplane Crash Statistics Data Odds of being killed on a single airline flight 1 in 29.4 million Number of fatalities per million flight hours 12.25 Survival rate of passengers on a fatal crash 24 % Fatalities by Phase of Flight Percent Taxi, load/unload, parked, tow 0 % Takeoff 16 % Initial Climb 14 % Climb (flaps up) 13 % Cruise 16 % Descent 4 % Initial Approach 12 % Final Approach 13 % Landing 12 % Most Recent Airline Crashes Date Phase Fatalities Kogalymavia Flight 9268 November 1, 2015 En Route 224 Trigana Air Flight 267 Aug 16, 2015 En Route 54 Germanwings Flight 9525 March 24, 2015 En Route 150 Indonesia Flight 8501 Dec 28, 2014 En Route 162 Air Algerie Flight 5017 Jul 24, 2014 En Route 116 Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 Jul 17 2014 En Route 298 Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 Mar 8, 2014 En Route 239 Tatarstan Airlines Flight 363 Nov 17, 2013 Landing 50 Dana Air Flight 992 Jun 3 2012 Approach 163 Cause of Fatal Airplane Crashes Percent of Crashes Pilot Error 32 % Pilot Error  (weather related) 16 % Pilot Error (mechanical related) 5 % Total Pilot Error 53 % Other Human Error 6 % Weather 12 % Mechanical Failure 20 % Sabotage 8 % Other Cause 1 %  ADVERTISEMENT    Crashes and Fatalities on Aircrafts with 19 or More Passengers Year Number of Fatal Crashes Number of Fatalities 2015 3 428 2014 6 931 2013 7 266 2000 21 1,029 1990 20 618 1989 35 1,690 1972 41 2,347 North American Commercial Airline Accidents Airline Million Flights Fatal Events Last Fatality Accident Rate Air Canada 4.37 0 (1983) -537% AirTran Airways(ValuJet) 2.60 1 1996 +75% Alaska Airines/ Horizon 5.08 1 2000 -174% American Airlines 16.51 5 2001 +5% American Eagle / Executive 11.10 4 1994 -28% Comair 4.86 2 2006 +283% Continental AL/Cont. Exp. 12.39 4 2009 -905% Delta Airlines 16.03 1 1996 -1695% Hawaiian Airlines 1.25 0 None -225% JetBlue 1.62 0 None -262% Southwest Airlines 18.15 0 None -1915% United Airlines 12.87 3 2001 -517% United Express 11.50 2 1996 -598% US Airways 11.91 3 1994 -200% WestJet 1.30 0 None -230%  Posted in Health Tagged news  PREV DATA SET NEXT DATA SET Statistic Sources & References   Source: Statistic Brain Research Institute (Online / Direct Response Mail)  Content Author: Statistic Brain Date research was conducted: May 23, 2017 Airplane Crash Statistics ADVERTISEMENT    Related Statistic Brain Research      STATISTIC BRAIN EVENTS The first cryptocurrency benefiting education and free research. Free coin distribution starting soon. For more information and to sign up for the StatCoin newsletter  CLICK HERE       INTERESTING CATEGORIES NUMBER OF A list of categories that will answer that burning question you have as to the number of something.  View Here  ACTORS SALARIES Ever wonder how much a certain actor got paid for a film? View Here  DISEASES Looking to study up on the most common / uncommon diseases. View Here  php if( get_field('remove_ads') ): ?  php else: ?      php endif; ?  TRENDING STATISTICS  High-Speed Internet Access Statistics  Schizophrenia Statistics  Babe Ruth Career Statistics  Fear / Phobia Statistics  Credit Card Fraud Statistics  Chewing Gum Statistics   Information & Support About Us   Contact   Our Methodology   Cite Statistics   FAQ   Privacy Policy   Statistic Brain Extras RSS Feed   Statistical Videos   Historic Timelines   Become a Statistic Survey    Receive Our Monthly Newsletter    STATISTIC BRAIN EVENTS The first cryptocurrency benefiting education and free research. Free coin distribution starting soon. For more information and to sign up for the StatCoin newsletter  CLICK HERE    Copyright © 2018 | Statistic Brain Research Institute