                    Tech      Finance      Politics      Strategy      Life      All          BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition              A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.     Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                       BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE               Tech    Enterprise  Science  Advertising  Media  Transportation        Finance    Markets  Retail  Your Money  Markets Insider        Politics    Military & Defense  News        Strategy    Careers        Life    Entertainment  Travel  Sports        All           BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition   US  UK  DE  AUS  FR  IN  IT  JP  MY  NL  SE  PL  SG  ZA  ES            Follow us on:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net                       Finance        This Is When You're Going To Die                Andy Kiersz         Mar. 21, 2014, 12:57 PM    110,641          facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link     Everyone will die someday, and it is only a question of when. Through the power of actuarial estimates, it is possible to figure out approximately how long you are likely to live. We made a set of charts, based on data from the Social Security Administration's cohort life tables , that show, given your gender and current age, the probability that you will reach some particular later age. Naturally, these are based on averages for a particular age group — health conditions and lifestyle choices like diet, exercise, and smoking can vastly alter one's life expectancy. Regardless, this is important information for anyone who has to think about things like retirement and estate planning. Here are the charts, in descending order by present age: If you are an 80 year old man, your long-term odds are not great. There is a 30% chance of making it to your 90th birthday, and only about 14 in 1,000 will see 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration 70 year olds have a somewhat better prognosis. Almost 2/3 of 70 year old men and almost 3/4 of 70 year old women will live at least another ten years, and over 1/5 of men will make it to 90, as will 1/3 of women. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For 60 year olds, we see some of the benefits of modern medicine kicking in. The overwhelming majority of 60 year olds will live until at least 70, and majorities will get to at least 80. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Similarly, very few people who make it to 50 die before they turn 60. As we look at younger and younger cohorts, we see better and better long-term odds as well. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For people turning 40, comfortable majorities will see 80, and one in twenty women who are currently 40 will be able to blow out 100 birthday candles someday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Dying in your thirties is an extremely old-fashioned idea. Only 1.5% of thirty year old men, and just 0.9% of thirty year old women will die before their fortieth birthday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration The late 21st century will have more than its fair share of elderly millenials. 60% of twenty year old men and 70% of twenty year old women will live to see the year 2074. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration One interesting aspect of this data is that the Social Security administration projects that the gap in longevity between men and women will continue into the future. Even among today's ten year olds, girls are likely to outlive boys. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Finally, children born today will live longer than any other generation. About 2/3 will live past 80, and 1/3 past 90. Almost one in ten girls born now will live past 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration      SEE ALSO:  Thousands Of Med Students Are About To Have Their Fates Determined By An Algorithm       More:  Death  Social Security  Charts      facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link           Recommended For You   Powered By Sailthru              Powered By Sailthru               Recommended For You                   Featured         It's time for better capitalism  More "Better Capitalism" »         Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it  More "Better Capitalism" »           Business Insider Intelligence Exclusive Free Report        Get The Slide Deck From Henry Blodget's Ignition Presentation On The Future Of Media                               Follow us on:                  Also check out:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net        Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                   You have JavaScript turned off! Javascript is required for the best experience on this site.     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                   Papers     Papers  THP collaborates with leading experts to produce evidence-based policy proposals that foster prosperity through broad-based, sustainable economic growth.    Papers by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Papers by Type   Economic Analyses  Economic Facts  Policy Proposals  Strategy & Framing Papers  Policy Books        Events     Events  THP forums bring together key policy makers, academic experts, and business leaders to discuss ways to address our nation’s most pressing economic challenges.    Upcoming & Recent       Event  Apr 25, 2018  Beyond Reading and Math: How to Accelerate Success for Students         Event  Feb 28, 2018  How to Get American Workers a Raise: Policies to Revitalize Wage Growth         Event  Dec 13, 2017  Advancing U.S. Innovation by Reforming Patent and R&D Policy           Charts     Charts  THP charts, maps, and tables highlight economic policy challenges through dynamic interactive features.    Charts by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Charts by Type   Charts  Interactives        Topics     Topics  THP proposals and research introduce innovative, evidence-based economic policy options into the national discourse.    All Topics     Economic Security & Poverty    Education    Effective Government      Employment & Wages    Energy & Environment    Health Care      Infrastructure    Tax Policy & Budget    Technology & Innovation            About THP  Authors  Commentary  Multimedia  News Center    xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                                Search the Site          Chart  Probability of a 65-Year-Old Living to a Given Age, by Sex and Year   Health Care     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                         Jun 23, 2015      More than three out of five 65-year-olds today will reach age 80.    Rising life expectancy and potentially exorbitant long-term care costs have increased the financial resources required to support oneself and one’s spouse in retirement and old age.  Americans today are living longer than did previous generations, thanks to advances in medicine and changes in lifestyle. As shown in the dark green bars, 50 years ago a man who had reached 65 had an 81 percent chance of reaching 70, a 41 percent chance of hitting 80, and a 10 percent chance of turning 90. By comparison, the chances of reaching those same ages for a man who reaches 65 in 2015 are (as shown in the light green bars) 90 percent, 62 percent, and 22 percent, respectively. Put differently, the likelihood of a 65-year-old man seeing his 80th birthday has increased by 50 percent, and the likelihood of him seeing his 90th birthday has more than doubled. Women live longer than men on average, and they have experienced smaller but still substantial gains in life expectancy over the past 50 years.      Related Papers      Economic Facts  Ten Economic Facts about Financial Well-Being in Retirement        Learn More      Event  Promoting Financial Well-Being in Retirement             Similar Charts       Chart  Jun 19, 2014  Percent of Births to Unmarried Mothers by Education, 1970-2012    Since about 1980, the growth of single-parent families has been driven almost entirely by an increase in childbearing outside of marriage, often the result of people sliding into relationships and having an unplanned baby.        Chart  Nov 21, 2013  Child Food Insecurity and Obesity Rates in 2011, by State    In a new chart, The Hamilton Project shows the child food insecurity rates in every state in 2011.        Chart  Aug 5, 2011  Deaths from Major Infectious Disease    Technological and medical innovations have drastically reduced the mortality rate and increased life expectancy in the United States        Chart  Jun 23, 2015  Half of Americans Turning 65 in 2015 Face Out-of-Pocket Expenditures on Long-term Care    Half of all Americans turning 65 in 2015 will eventually face out-of-pocket expenditures on long-term services and supports (LTSS)—services provided in nursing homes, adult day-care centers, or in people’s homes that support those who have difficulty with routine daily activities such as bathing or dressing.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  Average Medicare Reimbursements per Enrollee    This chart shows Medicare spending for the average enrollee in the program after adjusting for prices and demographics for each hospital referral region—areas where people tend to receive medical care from similar providers.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  U.S. Health-Care and Out-of-Pocket Expenditures    For much of the past five decades, growth in spending on health care has been faster than economic growth in the economy as a whole. As shown in this chart, healthcare expenditures in 2014 accounted for an estimated 18 percent of GDP—a marked increase from 6 percent of GDP in 1965.       View All          Your email…   Sign Up      xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                        All content © 2018 The Hamilton Project . Terms and Conditions .                                 October 2012           ODDS OF LIVING TO RETIREMENT AT AGE 65       Of 1,000 Men...    Of 1,000 Men at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  161  84%    35  155  84%    40  148  85%    45  138  86%    50  123  88%    55  100  90%    60  62  94%    Of 1,000 Women...    Of 1,000 Women at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  126  87%    35  121  88%    40  116  88%    45  109  89%    50  97  90%    55  78  92%    60  47  95%    Inadequate retirement savings can keep you from realizing your retirement dreams! Are you making effective use of your business to achieve your retirement planning goals?       MESSAGES from the Masters...      THREE KEYS TO GREATNESS  by Jim Rohn  Several
years ago I went into the studio and recorded a 56-minute video for
teenagers called "Three Keys To Greatness." Although my focus was for
teenagers, the principles I shared certainly apply to adults as well.  Recently I was asked to list these three things using one to two sentences for each.  Now for your benefit here they are again.  1) Setting Goals. I call it the view of the future. Most people, including kids, will pay
the price if they can see the promise of the future. So we need to help
our kids see a well-defined future, so they will be motivated to pay
the price today to attain the rewards of tomorrow. Goals help them do
this.  2) Personal Development. Simply making consistent investments in our self-education and
knowledge banks pays major dividends throughout our lives. I suggest
having a minimum amount of time set aside for reading books, listening
to audiocassettes, attending seminars, keeping a journal and spending
time with other successful people. Charlie Tremendous Jones says you
will be in five years the sum total of the books you read and the
people you are around.  3) Financial Planning. I call it the 70/30 plan. After receiving your paycheck or paying
yourself, simply setting aside 10% for saving, 10% for investing and
10% for giving, and over time this will guarantee financial
independence for a teenager.  If
a young person, or for that matter an adult, focused on doing these
three simple things over a long period of time I believe they will be
assured success!  To Your Success, Jim Rohn          Brought to you by:     Jeffrey N. Schweitzer, EPA, CEP, ATP   Northeast Financial Strategies Inc  667 South Street  Wrentham, MA  02093  800-560-4637    jeff@nfsnet.com    http://www.nfsnet.com About our firm: Offering Financial & Estate Planning, Investments, Insurance, Accounting, Payroll, and  Income Tax Preparation for Individuals & Small Business.    "Financial Strategies That Fit YOUR Needs!"     QUOTES from the Masters...       On Expectation       "Look for the good in every person and every situation.  You'll almost always find it."  -- Brian Tracy  "Life...It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations."  -- Richard M. DeVos  "Don't join an easy crowd; you won't grow. Go where the expectations and the demands to perform are high."  -- Jim Rohn       On Entrepreneurism       "Entrepreneurial leadership requires the ability to move quickly when opportunity presents itself."  -- Brian Tracy  "Kids ought to have two bicycles, one to ride and one to rent."  -- Jim Rohn  "The future will be owned and operated by the entrepreneurially minded."  -- Mark Victor Hansen        The
purpose of this newsletter is to provide information of general
interest to our clients, potential clients and other professionals. The
information provided is general in nature and should not be considered
complete information on any product or concept described.  For more complete information, please contact my office at the phone number above.  Published by The Virtual Assistant; © 2012 VSA, LP    We
don't want to add to your e-mail clutter! If you do not enjoy my
newsletter, just reply to this e-mail and ask to be removed or call my
office.  Thanks!                             Toggle navigation            Find senior living:    (800) 973-1540               Sign in      Assisted Living   What is Assisted Living?  Find Assisted Living  How to Choose an Assisted Living Facility  Paying for Assisted Living  More Assisted Living Resources     Home Care   Find Non-Medical Home Care  Find Home Health Agencies  Find Hospices     Caregiving Resources   Avoid Caregiver Burnout  Senior Health Conditions  Paying for Senior Care  Elderlaw & Legal Planning  Support Groups  See All Resources     Dementia & Alzheimer’s   Find Memory Care  See Articles & Resources     More Senior Living Options   Independent Living  Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Nursing Homes  Adult Day Care            Assisted Living   What is Assisted Living?  Find Assisted Living  How to Choose an Assisted Living Facility  Paying for Assisted Living  More Assisted Living Resources     Home Care   Find Non-Medical Home Care  Find Home Health Agencies  Find Hospices     Caregiving Resources   Avoid Caregiver Burnout  Senior Health Conditions  Paying for Senior Care  Elderlaw & Legal Planning  Support Groups  See All Resources     Dementia & Alzheimer’s   Find Memory Care  See Articles & Resources     More Senior Living Options   Independent Living  Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Nursing Homes  Adult Day Care                Advertisement           Page Sponsored By            Caring Home Caregiving Resources Senior Health Conditions 10 Surprising Clues You'll Live to 100         10 Surprising Clues You'll Live to 100  By Paula Spencer Scott , Senior Health Writer | Last updated: Mar 15, 2018                                   All Rights Reserved    About one in 10,000 people seems to be a "slow ager" who lives to 100 -- sometimes even in spite of bad health habits, like smoking or exercising little, according to new research. Will you be among them? You won't know if you're among the genetically predisposed for sure, of course, until those 100 birthday candles are lit. But researchers are discovering more and more clues as to who's on his or her way.  Clue #1: How many elderly relatives are on your family tree?  What it may mean: You may have longevity genes.  At least half of all those who reach 100 have a parent, sibling, or grandparent who has also achieved very old age (90-plus), according to the New England Centenarian Study at the Boston University School of Medicine, which studies 100-plussers to unlock secrets of successful aging.    Advertisement              A 2002 study by the center's director, geriatrician Thomas Perls, found that male siblings of centenarians have a 17 times greater chance of reaching their 100th birthday than other men born around the same time; female siblings are 8.5 times more likely to hit 100 than other females also born around the same time.  Other studies have found that exceptional aging is often clustered among multiple first-tier family members, supporting a genetic link. Having siblings, parents, and grandparents who make it to 100 seems to be a much stronger indicator than counting cousins and other more distant relatives.  Clue #2: How fast and how far can you walk?  What it may mean: You're in good condition for the long haul.  Faster walkers live longer. University of Pittsburgh researchers crunched numbers from nine different studies including almost 35,000 subjects ages 65 or older. The result: For each gait speed increase of 0.1 meters per second came a corresponding 12 percent decrease in the risk of death.    Advertisement         The average speed was 3 feet per second (about two miles an hour). Those who walked slower than 2 feet per second (1.36 miles per hour) had an increased risk of dying. Those who walked faster than 3.3 feet per second (2.25 miles per hour) or faster survived longer than would be predicted simply by age or gender.  A 2006 report in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that among adults ages 70 to 79, those who couldn't walk a quarter mile were less likely to be alive six years later. They were also more likely to suffer illness and disability before death. An earlier study of men ages 71 to 93 found that those who could walk two miles a day had half the risk of heart attack of those who could walk only a quarter mile or less.  Clue #3: Do you have a lot of people in your life?  What it may mean: Social engagement is a key lifespan-extender.  Countless studies have found that social isolation is bad for your health, while having friends and social engagement is good. One of the more surprising findings in The Longevity Project (a book about an eight-decade study of 1,500 subjects all born around 1910) is that religious women lived longer -- primarily, as it turned out, because of the social connectedness of their faith-based lifestyle. That is, they worshipped with others, joined committees, and engaged in social outreach, from clothing drives to soup kitchens.  "There was a clear, similar trend among people who had civic engagements, were active in their communities, volunteered, and otherwise stayed connected, whether with families, friends, or coworkers," says Leslie R. Martin, a professor of psychology at La Sierra University in Riverside, California, who's the coauthor of The Longevity Project .  More clues that you could live to 100  Clue #4: Are you a woman?  What it may mean: Odds are more in your favor from the start.  Sorry, fellas. In 2010, there were 80,000 centenarians in the U.S.; 85 percent of them were women, and only 15 percent were men.  It's not entirely clear what's causing the disparity. Theories include the protective role of female sex hormones and menstruation, lower rates of cardiovascular disease for women, and higher smoking rates among men. Men also have higher rates of car accidents and suicide.  The survival gap is gradually narrowing, however, possibly because women are living lives that are conventionally male in terms of stress and poorer health habits, especially smoking.  One bit of good news for men: Those who do reach the century mark are, on average, healthier and more functionally fit than their female counterparts. Women survive medical catastrophes better than men but with more disability.  Clue #5 (for women only): Did you have a child after age 35?  What it may mean: This is possible evidence that you're a slow ager.  Popular wisdom holds that late-life babies are tougher on a mother's aging body. If so, that graying hair mixed with newborn pink or blue reflects a silver lining: According to the New England Centenarian Study, a woman who naturally conceives and bears a child after the age of 40 has a four times greater chance of living to 100 than women who don't. Moms who give birth naturally at 35-plus also make it to 100 in larger numbers than younger counterparts.  It's not the act of bearing a child late in life that extends lifespan, however. Researchers instead believe that being able to conceive and give birth in your late 30s or 40s is probably an indicator that your reproductive system is aging slowly -- and that therefore the rest of your body is likely to be aging slowly, as well.  Clue #6: When were you born?  What it may mean: Growing lifespans give younger people an edge.  A 2011 report by the British Department for Work and Pensions estimated life expectancy for citizens at various ages, providing a snapshot that Yanks can learn from, too.  A British girl born this year has a one in three chance of living to 100; a 2011-born boy has a one in four chance. If you're a 20-year-old woman, you have a 26.6 percent chance; a 20-year-old man has a 19.5 percent chance.  The average 50-year-old woman in the U.K. has a 14.6 percent chance of seeing 2061, the year of her diamond-anniversary birthday; just over one in 10 of her male counterparts will still be around then.  And if you're 99 now? You have a whopping 67 percent chance of seeing another year.  Clue #7: Do you worry -- but not too much?  What it may mean: There's a "healthy" worry level.  It sounds like a punch line: "Be afraid, be very afraid -- but not too much!" So-called "catastrophizers" -- Eeyore-like personalities who fret about impending doom, see the glass as half-empty, and are harshly self-critical -- tend to die sooner, according to psychology professor Leslie R. Martin of La Sierra University.  On the other hand, a moderate amount of anxiety and worry is associated with a 50-percent decreased risk of death in any given year, she says. Moderate worriers tend to be less impulsive, take fewer risks, have less risky hobbies, and plan for alternatives, which may all be protective without adding a negative health impact.  More clues that you could live to 100  Clue #8: Is your weight normal -- or are you only slightly overweight?  What it may mean: You have better odds of reaching 100 than if you were obese.  A surprising 2011 Albert Einstein College of Medicine study of 477 adults ages 95 to 112 found that these solid-gold agers had no better health habits overall than a comparison group born at the same time that had been studied in the 1970s. One difference: Those in long-lived group were much less likely to be obese.  Both male and female centenarians in the study were overweight at about the same rates as those in the shorter-lived group. But only 4.5 percent of the long-lived men and 9.6 of the women were obese, compared to 12.1 percent and 16.2 percent, respectively, of the younger-lived controls. ("Normal weight" is a Body Mass Index -- or BMI, a measure of height in proportion to weight -- in the range of 18 to 24; "overweight" is 25 to 30; over 30 is "obese.")  This finding echoes other studies showing the greatest risks of death among those who are obese or underweight at age 65 (BMI under 18.5), compared to those of normal weight or slight overweight. A 2011 study at Loma Linda University in Southern California found that men over age 75 with a BMI over 27.4 lived nearly four years less than those with a lower BMI. For women over age 75, a BMI over 27.4 led to a two-year shorter lifespan. Studies of centenarians show that men who reach 100 are almost always lean (more so than women).  Luckily, this clue is one you can control. "Since you can't be sure if you'll live to 100, I wouldn't take the chance of ignoring the lifestyle interventions that we know will at least put you in the half the population who die after age 80 -- starting with watching weight and being sure to exercise," says the senior author of the Albert Einstein study, Nir Barzilai, director of the college's Institute for Aging Research.  Clue # 9: How long are your telomeres?  What it may mean: Many people who live to 100 have a hyperactive version of an enzyme that rebuilds telomeres.  "What-o-meres?" you ask. Telomeres are protective DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes that gradually shorten as cells divide. (Pioneering telomere researcher Elizabeth Blackburn of the University of California-San Francisco compares them to shoelace caps.) Eventually the telomeres become so short that cells stop dividing, a condition called senescence, creating the effects we recognize as aging in related tissue.  Scientists are still unraveling the key role telomeres seem to play in aging, cancer, and other biological processes, but this much is clear: The longer your telomeres, the more time you're apt to have left. A 2010 Italian study reported that cancer-free people with shorter telomeres were more likely to develop cancer within ten years than those with longer telomeres, for example.  Some studies show that removing chronic stress, not smoking, and eating a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids can improve telomere length. Those centenarians with hyperactive telomere-making apparatus can probably thank their genes, though.  New blood tests are now being marketed directly to consumers, purporting to predict longevity based on telomere length. But critics caution that there aren't standards for measuring telomere length and that there can be such variability in telomeres that it's hard to predict much of anything from a sample.  Clue #10: Are you a positive person?  What it may mean: Emotion influences health, which influences aging.  Some studies have shown that an upbeat attitude about aging adds years. But long-term studies conducted at the Stanford Longevity Center show that emotions, more than attitudes, may be the biologic mechanism at work, says Laura Carstensen, the center's director.  "What's the mechanism at work here? Feeling upbeat about your life means you experience less stress, which in turn affects cortisol levels, which can affect health," she says. Stanford researchers periodically assess 19 different emotions in subjects randomly polled over 1 week at 5-year intervals. Having more positive emotions than negative ones is associated with living longer.  Carstensen is a firm believer that while "slow agers" clearly exist, there's more to their stories than lucky genes. "There's mounting evidence that genes play a role in longevity, but genes play a role in almost everything," she says. "They don't express themselves in vacuums -- there are very complex interactions between genes and lifestyle." So all that advice on how to live to 100 ? Can't hurt to heed it.      Paula Spencer Scott  Paula Spencer Scott is the author of Surviving Alzheimer's: Practical Tips and Soul-Saving Wisdom for Caregivers and much of the Alzheimer's and caregiving content on Caring. See full bio      Home Care Costs Near You   Compare pictures, pricing, options.    Get Information           ×   Home Care Costs Near You     Reference (optional)               Who needs care?  -- Choose One --  Parent(s)  Relative(s)  Friend(s)  Myself  Spouse  Patient/Client  Job  Other  Where are you looking for care?   Your e-mail address   Let's get started   1  2        Paying with Medicaid only    By submitting this form, you agree to Caring.com's Privacy Policy , Terms of Use and Agreement to be Contacted by Telephone .   1  2                                      READ THESE NEXT:  How to Live to 100   5 Secrets to Aging Well         5 months,  goldenrod  said...     Do old people with more muscle than other people their age live longer?         about 3 years,  Ric's wife  said...     We live, I am sad to say, in a society where things often get 'thrown away'..even older people..long before the time is due. I see elderly neighbors, and it is obvious to me that NO ONE is looking in on them, stopping by, calling..they are neglected. Period. On the other hand...I discovered as my friend Joe started to really decline that the law states, "an elderly person has the right to refuse help - even if that refusal hastens his or her demise." (!!) A perfectly idiotic law. And Alz is making that a game changer. Because, your 'independent family member/neighbor' might be leaving a pot on the stove and causing a fire, thus the local Engine company must come and douse it..is endangering the entire building. And a good neighbor of ours was removed to a nursing home after the third fire, by order of the management Board. Truly, as I observe my elderly colleagues and family members I know each is unique, and although the factors in play for every person are different, some have one person in the family circle shouldering everything. Some have a circle of involved people. But support groups are there, and a friend found a church group that began to help out, along with referrals to home aides and eventually, assisted care. It is truly exhausting and depressing to come home after a day of paying bills, cleaning up, and going head to head with someone who outright balks at your kind help. And often by the time the person needs it, it is too late for them to even understand and reflect that they DO. Take care of yourself as you struggle and deal with a situation like this. Reach out for help. And while we're about it... put your dimwit, selfish family members on notice, those who 'keep meaning to go and see Aunt Hepzibah/Dad/Grandmom', to get off their butts and help!. I see inequities like this every day; and am not the least bit shy about speaking up. The squeaky wheel gets the grease, and no way should one person carry the load for all, especially when caring for an elderly loved one with serious dementia, and related medical challenges. The unintended consequence of living longer can sometimes be dementia. Not all people remain active, engaged and clearheaded, dear Lord - would that it could be so. Bless the folks who are fortunate enough to mountain climb, and do it all..right up to the very end.. And bless those who are not so lucky, and lastly, those steadfast folks who must care for them!         about 3 years,  popsie  said...     Great article.  I would also add volunteering - doing something for others         about 3 years,  LadyLew  said...     Well, I've got a mixed bag of factors; this indicates, I suppose, that I probably won't make it to 100, but I'll at least make it to my next birthday (Feb 19) at which time I'll be entering my 74th year.         about 3 years, a fellow commenter  said...     my Nan was a solitary person and lived to 97 years of age, my mum walked fast everyday, had loads of friends was out every weekend and died at 57. So you can't tell by what your family has been through it is the individual that counts.         about 3 years,  A Who  said...     If this article is correct, I think I'm good for 100 plus!         over 3 years,  JoeE71  said...     Great article that gets you thinking.  I put a link to it on my blog, FotoDialer.blogspot.com.         over 3 years, a fellow commenter  said...     I loved it!  It told me I'm good for the long haul!         about 4 years,  CA-Claire  said...     Well, I wonder how old I will end up being?  My Mother passed away a few months after she turned 90 years old (her parents both died in their late 60s), and Dad is 92 now and starting to fail - his parents passed away at 90.  One of my siblings has heart problems (2nd heart surgery at 55).  One has survived a very rare cancer (Thymoma), and the other I don't know much about his health.

I'll change what I can, but like some of the other posters, I only want to live as long as I am useful.  Once I'm a power drain, let me go!         over 4 years,  hurting heart  said...     Helpful, somewhat, but how can you be a positive person when there is so much negative around you when you are caregiving a person with dementia?         over 4 years,  Danny Kowkabany  said...     Great article, 

Thank you,         almost 5 years, a fellow commenter  said...     I only want to live until my usefulness is gone....be it 75 or 100 . After that, let me go or give me something to do do even if it's shelling peas or licking stamps.  A doctor once said: "The secret to a long, HAPPY life is to get up every day with something to do." We cannot control things like dementia or disease, to a large degree, but have the kindness to find a caring place to take care care of your loved one so you can visit often but have a life of your own. There are many caring places, I have worked in one and know of others - just do your research and your part to oversee their care if you can't.  My mother-in-law lived to be 100 in her own home with round the clocks sitters like the Queen of England and was robbed of her valuables and self respect - all because her two sons could not do the right thing and put her in a nice place nearby.  I do not want to live to be 100 like this.  Who does?  Life is not meant to be extended by a number, but by dignity.  Once that is gone, you might as well be dead. No more articles about living to be 100!         almost 5 years,  YaYaBaby  said...     Your great...no complaints here. Keep up the good work & educating us!         almost 5 years,  sami_  said...     not thanks         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     Ric's wife is helping people who help to whatever extent they can when they are needed. Imagine every day that you woke up with a depressed person who would not do anything to help yourself and actively resisted living with you because she wanted to be in her own home. She doesn't help. She doesn't go anywhere, she doesn't like anything and she hates me. I have enough grief to carry with my daughter's pulmonary embolism at age 36, my son's terminal illness, my husband's kidney transplant that is rejecting and my father's death from prostate cancer and my mother's death from breast cancer. I do not have the emotional resilience to carry someone else's grief and sour puss every moment of the day. Nor will my mother-in-law consider going to counseling to pop her giant zit of misery. My simple message is this: I cannot continue to do it all for everyone. I am caving in myself. And the only way my mother-in-law has made it to 97 is because I have done all the care, cooking, cleaning, working to supplement our depleted savings, washing her clothes, changing her diapers and getting nothing in return but a kick when her son, my husband, is out of the room and then she tells me I hit her. His undivided loyalty needs to be with me. And I simply can't do this any more. My neighbors have moved out. My children live 20 hours away by car. There is NO backup. My husband WON'T pay for respite care. I cannot leave her on the floor if she falls at night. I don't know how to make it any clearer. Is she "living to 100?" Yes, she will. Will I? No, I won't. Again, one of the indicators of longevity is the support system that takes the stress so the elderly patient can survive.         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     To Caring Community and the authors who wrote this initial article:
When you wrote about the factors that enable people to reach 100, you forgot to include that most of that goes to being cared for by caregivers who lose out on their own longevity to provide care under stress. That's how I got into answering here instead of at resource articles. Your article needed some indication of ongoing support. Centenarians do not take care of themselves.         over 5 years,  Ric's wife  said...     Well, one thing is certainly true: age, and just plain living, brings us through may experiences. We all face challenges: poverty, illness, loneliness, the steady erosion of independence - I see this daily, when I visit my seniors. Each has a story to tell, and each has weathered some appalling personal crisis. The death of a loved partner, reduced financial circumstances, growing frailty. These are indeed realities of being elderly in our society. So, I don't know what to say about the 'bad part of getting older'.. pessimism about one's state, and future may in some cases be justified. But for my people, all of whom have multiple reasons to feel lousy the moment they get out of bed in the morning - they actually don't choose to DO that. They are involved in life, and I let them natter away at me, while I prepare coffee, mop, clean out their fridge, help them with the grocery list. And I suspect that that may be a clue to Mary (90) Joe (89) and my Mom, Lucille (90) still chugging along, and showing no signs of slowing down. I am, as some know, just a 'whippersnapper' of 64 myself, but when we had the fire at our building, these so called 'doddery' oldsters were calling up, taking time, comforting ME!! Their reassurance, wisdom and perspective (one senior neighbor of mine remembers the Holocaust) kept me from losing my mind. Do they sometimes feel angry, or put-upon? Sure enough. But they're still alive and, facing things head-on. Another clue? While I truly savor my moments of repose and calm, I am no fool to think they can last 24/7. I take my older friends 'vinegar in the greens' points of view as something that frequently comes in quite handy in the real world. And that 'tude may also prolong life.         over 5 years,  Caring Community  said...     Hello All, Thank you for your comments. The focus of this article is what clues can indicate living 100-plus years. If you would like to discuss your caregiving journey and connect with other caregivers on an ongoing basis, please visit our free online support groups at http://www.caring.com/support-groups. Also, for all comments you post anywhere on Caring.com, please abide our site terms of use, community code of conduct, and privacy policy: http://www.caring.com/about/terms One key guideline to keep in mind: Differences of opinion are welcome, as long as they're presented respectfully. Personal attacks are never allowed. If your comment doesn't fit within the site terms and guidelines, it will be removed. Please contact our team if you have any questions of concerns (use the blue Feedback tab, "contact us" link at the bottom of Caring.com pages, or email moderators AT Caring.com). Thank you.         over 5 years, a fellow commenter  said...     To all those hoping to live to be 100, be very, very careful what you wish for because it might come true and you might not like what it brings.         over 5 years,  Ric's wife  said...     For further hints I suggest reading LOST HORIZON, by James Hilton, and Conway's conversation with the High Lama, who is well past the age of 100. Moderation in all things, a philosophy of work balanced with spirituality. Not always possible in our high tech world, I grant you - but there are may leaves from the Lama's worldview that can work for us, and give us a very wise perspective on ways to navigate through life's troubles, and challenges. Of course in the case of Shangri La, these people live away from all the hurly burly, but I often open the book, and gain insights from the way they view and approach the stresses of life. And, of and by itself it's also a wonderful read, even though it was written in the 1930's just as the WW2 Axis wheels were cranking in gear. Hilton's book nevertheless contains timeless, heartwarming insights that touch... and can teach us all a thing or two!         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     One last observation about my own comments. I was initially trying to warn caregivers to set up backup before they get stuck with all of the responsibilities, sharing with siblings or adult children or respite care. But I got into the abyss of venting because I am literally moving out in a week or so and nobody, especially an overburdened caregiver like you or anyone else, needs to hear bad news when they are seeking hope.       See remaining 51 comments              Advertisement               Top Cities for Assisted Living   Assisted Living in Tarzana, California  Assisted Living in Phoenix, Arizona  Assisted Living in Saint George, Utah  Assisted Living in Pasadena, California  Find Assisted Living Near You       Top Cities for In-Home Care   In-Home Care in Springfield, Virginia  In-Home Care in Falls Church, Virginia  In-Home Care in Leesburg, Virginia  In-Home Care in Herndon, Virginia  Find In-Home Care Near You       Top Cities for Memory Care   Memory Care in Hollywood, Florida  Memory Care in Jacksonville, Florida  Memory Care in Savannah, Georgia  Memory Care in Sarasota, Florida  Find Memory Care Near You        Stay Connected With Caring.com  Get news & tips via e-mail        Subscribe          Advertisement          Also from Caring.com         11 Signs It Might be Time for Assisted Living    8 Ways to Protect Against Eye Problems with Age    Creating a Daily Routine for a Loved One with Dementia: 3 Key Tips    Caring for Someone with a Traumatic Brain Injury: 11 Smart Tips    Counseling for Caregivers: Steps to Save Your Sanity    The Surprising Power of Pet Therapy for Dementia    Would You Want to Know Your Risk of Alzheimer's?    6 Nonverbal Dementia Communication Techniques to Make Caregiving Easier    How to Handle Power of Attorney for a Parent with Dementia    What You Should Know About Moving to a New Senior Care Facility    The Most and Least Affordable States for Your Aging Parents in 2018    The 10 Most Expensive States for Your Aging Parents in 2018    The 10 Cheapest States for Your Aging Parents in 2018                         General Info     About Caring  News Room  Claim Caring.com Listing  Advertising  How We Make Money       Quick Links     Assisted Living  Alzheimer's and Dementia Care  Home Care  Free Newsletters  Site Map       Site Help     Contact Caring.com  Unsubscribe              Join Us                   Caring.com is a leading online destination for caregivers seeking information and support as they care for aging parents, spouses, and other loved ones. We offer thousands of original articles, helpful tools, advice from more than 50 leading experts, a community of caregivers, and a comprehensive directory of caregiving services.      The material on this site is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for legal, financial, professional, or medical advice or diagnosis or treatment. By using our website, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . © Copyright 2007-2018 Caring, Inc. All Rights Reserved.    By using our website, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . © Copyright 2007-2018 Caring, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                            CBS News  CBS Evening News  CBS This Morning  48 Hours  60 Minutes  Sunday Morning  Face The Nation  CBSN Originals       GO     Log In      Log In    Join CBSNews.com          CBS Moneywatch  Markets  Money  Work  Small Business  Retirement  Tech  Trending  Video        Get                      By  Steve Vernon  MoneyWatch  July 24, 2013, 12:42 PM  Living too long is a risk!    A picture taken on July 22, 2013, shows an old women walking in a corridor of the Ehpad retirement home "Maison d'Aquitaine" in Merignac, southwestern France, during a visit of French Junior Minister for the Elderly.     AFP PHOTO / NICOLAS TUCAT        (Photo credit should read NICOLAS TUCAT/AFP/Getty Images)  AFP        Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email     (MoneyWatch) Many people say they want to live a long time, but they don't really understand the financial implications of that wish. If you don't make the necessary monetary preparations for a long life, you could end up penniless and have to rely on family or the government safety net for support.  How long will you live?  Estimate your life expectancy -- change your life Experts warn of retirement crisis So how long might you live? This post follows up my last post , which discussed a recent report from the American Academy of Actuaries that addressed longevity risk -- the risk of living beyond your life expectancy.  The report, " Risky Business: Living Longer Without Income for Life ," contains estimates from the Social Security Administration tables of life expectancies for individuals currently age 65. According to the report, a man age 65 can expect to live a further 18.9 years on average; a 65-year-old woman can expect to be alive an additional 20.9 years. These life expectancies have increased by about five years since 1935, when the Social Security program was implemented (longer lifespans are one cause of Social Security's current financing issues).  But these life expectancies are just averages. What are the odds of beating the averages?  The "Risky Business" report shows that a 65-year-old man has about one in five odds of living to age 90 -- about six years longer than his life expectancy. A 65-year-old woman has almost one in three odds of living to age 90 -- four years longer than her life expectancy. And a 65-year-old couple has a 45 percent chance -- almost 50-50 -- that one of them will survive to age 90.  The Social Security tables represent the population at large, including people who smoke or work in unhealthy environments. How do the odds improve if you take care of your health? The report calculates the odds if you experience mortality rates -- the odds of dying in a year -- that are 75 percent of those on the Social Security's tables. These lower mortality rates can apply to you if you have above average education, a regular job, don't smoke, keep your weight at healthy levels, eat nutritious food and/or get regular exercise. If you die at these reduced mortality rates, you'll live longer than the population at large.  In this case, the odds are almost one in three that a 65-year-old man will live to age 90 and about one in eight that he'll live until age 95 -- 11 years beyond his life expectancy. A 65-year-old woman has 42 percent odds of living to age 90, and 21 percent odds (more than one in five) of living to age 95 -- nine years beyond her life expectancy.  The odds are 31 percent -- almost one in three -- that one member of a 65-year-old couple will live to age 95. The odds are one in 10 -- 10 percent -- that one member of this couple will live to age 100.  But most people aren't financially prepared to live that long or deal with the uncertainty of their actual lifespan. Retirement planning would be easier if you knew exactly how long you'll live. So what can you do to protect yourself against the risk of living too long? Stay tuned for my next post.   © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.       Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email        Steve Vernon   On Twitter »   View all articles by Steve Vernon on CBS MoneyWatch»  Steve Vernon helped large employers design and manage their retirement programs for more than 35 years as a consulting actuary. Now he's a research scholar for the Stanford Center on Longevity, where he helps collect, direct and disseminate research that will improve the financial security of seniors. He's also president of Rest-of-Life Communications , delivers retirement planning workshops and authored Money for Life: Turn Your IRA and 401(k) Into a Lifetime Retirement Paycheck and Recession-Proof Your Retirement Years .             Featured in Moneywatch      20 of the coolest places to retire in the world  Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world       10 products you should never buy generic  Generics are a great way to save money in lots of cases, but here is a look at some clear exceptions       Popular        Market Data                              Latest Features       4 ways women earn less than men         How to check if your Facebook data was shared with Cambridge Analytica         Catt Sadler on her new calling after leaving E! News         Facebook giving rewards for reports of data abuse         "Trade war" portfolio: 4 stocks to watch       Market News            Moneywatch Spotlight       5 cars drawing crowds at the New York Auto Show         Trump announces new tariffs on China         3 states open investigations into Cambridge Analytica, Facebook         9 American cities with the worst income inequality   25  Views          Super Bowl 2018 commercials: The best and the worst       Stock Watchlist                New Fire TV App                               Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services . ICE Limitations . Powered and implemented by FactSet .  Legal Statement .     CBSNews.com  Site Map  Help  Contact Us  CBS Bios  Careers  CBSi Careers  Internships  Development Programs    CBS Interactive  Privacy Policy  Ad Choice  Terms of Use  Mobile User Agreement  About CBS  Advertise  Closed Captioning  CBS News Store    Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter  RSS  Email Newsletters  YouTube  CBS News Radio  CBS Local     CBS News    Search       Copyright © 2018 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.                                                  Jobs    Cars    Homes    Announcements    Advertise My Business     Newsletter       Register  Login    Edit Account  Sign Out                                          News      Politics    Transport    Education    Environment    Health    Regions    UK    Opinion    World    Obituaries      Regions    Inverness, Highlands & Islands    Aberdeen & North East    Dundee & Tayside    Glasgow & Strathclyde    Edinburgh, Fife & Lothians    Dumfries & Borders      News    Politics    Transport    Education    Environment    Health    UK    News Opinion    World    Odd    Celebrity    Friends of The Scotsman    Obituaries    Consumer      Sport    Football    Rugby Union    Tennis    Golf    Cricket    Athletics    Boxing    Horse Racing    Cycling    Motorsport    Snooker    Hockey      Business    Companies    Markets and Economy    Management      Lifestyle    Gadgets & Gaming    Culture    Travel    Health & Wellbeing    Family    Personal Finance    Homes    Outdoors    Cars      Read This      Heritage    People & Places    Historic Events    Clans    Myths & Legends    Castles    Traditions & Culture      We Know Scotland      Future Scotland    Tech    Innovators    Big Ideas      Giving Back    Charities    Business in Action    Heroes                            Will you live to see 90? Here's how to figure your chances        Published:  21:37    Updated:  22:44  Monday 11 February 2008       Share this article                                                                Sign Up To Our Daily Newsletter      Sign up           WANT to live into your 90s? Well, researchers have calculated exactly how you can improve your chances of reaching a ripe old age.  Eating a healthy diet, taking regular exercise and avoiding smoking are all key to living longer. But ignore this advice at your peril – failure to follow these health tips could mean your chances of ever seeing 90 candles on your birthday cake plummet to just 4 per cent.    Campaigners said the study, carried out in the United States, again highlighted the importance of leading a healthy lifestyle to avoid illnesses such as heart disease and stroke.    The new research, published in the journal Archives of Internal Medicine, focused on 2,357 men taking part in  a study.    A team from Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston gathered lifestyle information from the men at the start of the study in 1981. They were then followed up yearly until 2006 to find out about changes in their habits and health. A total of 970 men (41 per cent of the total) lived to 90 or over. The researchers calculated that a 70-year-old man who did not smoke, had normal blood pressure and weight, did not suffer from diabetes and exercised two to four times a week had the best chance of living to 90, at  54 per cent. But for every bad habit, the likelihood of passing 90 dropped.  Those with a sedentary lifestyle saw their chances fall to 44 per cent. High blood pressure reduced the chances of making it to 90 to 36 per cent, being obese to 26 per cent and smoking to  22 per cent. Having five risk factors, including taking little exercise, having diabetes and being obese, cut the chances of reaching 90 to only 4 per cent.       The research team, led by Dr Laurel Yates, said: "Smoking, diabetes, obesity and hypertension significantly reduced the likelihood of a 90-year lifespan, while regular vigorous exercise substantially improved it. "Furthermore, men with a lifespan of 90 or more years also had better physical function, mental well-being and a self- perceived health in late life, compared with men who died at a young age." The researchers said that the impact of lifestyle risk factors in older people remained controversial, but their study suggested they remained important, at least in men. A spokeswoman for the charity Chest, Heart and Stroke Scotland said: "This research shows the importance of following a healthy lifestyle.       "Giving up smoking, eating a healthy diet and exercising regularly can reduce your risk factors for heart disease and stroke and make a significant difference to your quality of life. "It's never too late to be more active. Improved general health and longer independence can be great motivation." Ellen Mason, a cardiac nurse at the British Heart Foundation, said: "This study suggests that if a man aged 70 meets all of the following criteria – smokes, is overweight, has high blood pressure, diabetes and lives a sedentary lifestyle – their chance of reaching 90 is virtually zero. Basically, they will have a reduction in both quality and quantity of life. "It just goes to show, it is never too late to give up smoking and be more active in order to get fit and lose weight."                                                                       Follow Us On                                Explore    News    Sport    Business    Lifestyle    Food and Drink    Heritage    We Know Scotland    Future Scotland      More from The Scotsman    Announcements    Buy a Photo    Directory    Digital Archive    Jobs    Homes    Cars    Calendars    Conferences    Dating    Local Guide    Public Notices    Supplements    Mobility Aids    Reader Shop    Must Read    Read This      Useful Links    Contact Us    Advertise My Business    Advertise a Job    Advertising    Place your Ad    Subscribe    Edinburgh Evening News    Readers Charter            © 2018 Johnston Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.    Terms and Conditions    Disclaimer    Cookies Policy                              Tech      Finance      Politics      Strategy      Life      All          BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition              A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.     Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                       BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE               Tech    Enterprise  Science  Advertising  Media  Transportation        Finance    Markets  Retail  Your Money  Markets Insider        Politics    Military & Defense  News        Strategy    Careers        Life    Entertainment  Travel  Sports        All           BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition   US  UK  DE  AUS  FR  IN  IT  JP  MY  NL  SE  PL  SG  ZA  ES            Follow us on:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net                       Finance        This Is When You're Going To Die                Andy Kiersz         Mar. 21, 2014, 12:57 PM    110,641          facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link     Everyone will die someday, and it is only a question of when. Through the power of actuarial estimates, it is possible to figure out approximately how long you are likely to live. We made a set of charts, based on data from the Social Security Administration's cohort life tables , that show, given your gender and current age, the probability that you will reach some particular later age. Naturally, these are based on averages for a particular age group — health conditions and lifestyle choices like diet, exercise, and smoking can vastly alter one's life expectancy. Regardless, this is important information for anyone who has to think about things like retirement and estate planning. Here are the charts, in descending order by present age: If you are an 80 year old man, your long-term odds are not great. There is a 30% chance of making it to your 90th birthday, and only about 14 in 1,000 will see 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration 70 year olds have a somewhat better prognosis. Almost 2/3 of 70 year old men and almost 3/4 of 70 year old women will live at least another ten years, and over 1/5 of men will make it to 90, as will 1/3 of women. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For 60 year olds, we see some of the benefits of modern medicine kicking in. The overwhelming majority of 60 year olds will live until at least 70, and majorities will get to at least 80. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Similarly, very few people who make it to 50 die before they turn 60. As we look at younger and younger cohorts, we see better and better long-term odds as well. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For people turning 40, comfortable majorities will see 80, and one in twenty women who are currently 40 will be able to blow out 100 birthday candles someday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Dying in your thirties is an extremely old-fashioned idea. Only 1.5% of thirty year old men, and just 0.9% of thirty year old women will die before their fortieth birthday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration The late 21st century will have more than its fair share of elderly millenials. 60% of twenty year old men and 70% of twenty year old women will live to see the year 2074. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration One interesting aspect of this data is that the Social Security administration projects that the gap in longevity between men and women will continue into the future. Even among today's ten year olds, girls are likely to outlive boys. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Finally, children born today will live longer than any other generation. About 2/3 will live past 80, and 1/3 past 90. Almost one in ten girls born now will live past 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration      SEE ALSO:  Thousands Of Med Students Are About To Have Their Fates Determined By An Algorithm       More:  Death  Social Security  Charts      facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link           Recommended For You   Powered By Sailthru              Powered By Sailthru               Recommended For You                   Featured         It's time for better capitalism  More "Better Capitalism" »         Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it  More "Better Capitalism" »           Business Insider Intelligence Exclusive Free Report        Get The Slide Deck From Henry Blodget's Ignition Presentation On The Future Of Media                               Follow us on:                  Also check out:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net        Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                   You have JavaScript turned off! Javascript is required for the best experience on this site.     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                   Papers     Papers  THP collaborates with leading experts to produce evidence-based policy proposals that foster prosperity through broad-based, sustainable economic growth.    Papers by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Papers by Type   Economic Analyses  Economic Facts  Policy Proposals  Strategy & Framing Papers  Policy Books        Events     Events  THP forums bring together key policy makers, academic experts, and business leaders to discuss ways to address our nation’s most pressing economic challenges.    Upcoming & Recent       Event  Apr 25, 2018  Beyond Reading and Math: How to Accelerate Success for Students         Event  Feb 28, 2018  How to Get American Workers a Raise: Policies to Revitalize Wage Growth         Event  Dec 13, 2017  Advancing U.S. Innovation by Reforming Patent and R&D Policy           Charts     Charts  THP charts, maps, and tables highlight economic policy challenges through dynamic interactive features.    Charts by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Charts by Type   Charts  Interactives        Topics     Topics  THP proposals and research introduce innovative, evidence-based economic policy options into the national discourse.    All Topics     Economic Security & Poverty    Education    Effective Government      Employment & Wages    Energy & Environment    Health Care      Infrastructure    Tax Policy & Budget    Technology & Innovation            About THP  Authors  Commentary  Multimedia  News Center    xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                                Search the Site          Chart  Probability of a 65-Year-Old Living to a Given Age, by Sex and Year   Health Care     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                         Jun 23, 2015      More than three out of five 65-year-olds today will reach age 80.    Rising life expectancy and potentially exorbitant long-term care costs have increased the financial resources required to support oneself and one’s spouse in retirement and old age.  Americans today are living longer than did previous generations, thanks to advances in medicine and changes in lifestyle. As shown in the dark green bars, 50 years ago a man who had reached 65 had an 81 percent chance of reaching 70, a 41 percent chance of hitting 80, and a 10 percent chance of turning 90. By comparison, the chances of reaching those same ages for a man who reaches 65 in 2015 are (as shown in the light green bars) 90 percent, 62 percent, and 22 percent, respectively. Put differently, the likelihood of a 65-year-old man seeing his 80th birthday has increased by 50 percent, and the likelihood of him seeing his 90th birthday has more than doubled. Women live longer than men on average, and they have experienced smaller but still substantial gains in life expectancy over the past 50 years.      Related Papers      Economic Facts  Ten Economic Facts about Financial Well-Being in Retirement        Learn More      Event  Promoting Financial Well-Being in Retirement             Similar Charts       Chart  Jun 19, 2014  Percent of Births to Unmarried Mothers by Education, 1970-2012    Since about 1980, the growth of single-parent families has been driven almost entirely by an increase in childbearing outside of marriage, often the result of people sliding into relationships and having an unplanned baby.        Chart  Nov 21, 2013  Child Food Insecurity and Obesity Rates in 2011, by State    In a new chart, The Hamilton Project shows the child food insecurity rates in every state in 2011.        Chart  Aug 5, 2011  Deaths from Major Infectious Disease    Technological and medical innovations have drastically reduced the mortality rate and increased life expectancy in the United States        Chart  Jun 23, 2015  Half of Americans Turning 65 in 2015 Face Out-of-Pocket Expenditures on Long-term Care    Half of all Americans turning 65 in 2015 will eventually face out-of-pocket expenditures on long-term services and supports (LTSS)—services provided in nursing homes, adult day-care centers, or in people’s homes that support those who have difficulty with routine daily activities such as bathing or dressing.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  Average Medicare Reimbursements per Enrollee    This chart shows Medicare spending for the average enrollee in the program after adjusting for prices and demographics for each hospital referral region—areas where people tend to receive medical care from similar providers.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  U.S. Health-Care and Out-of-Pocket Expenditures    For much of the past five decades, growth in spending on health care has been faster than economic growth in the economy as a whole. As shown in this chart, healthcare expenditures in 2014 accounted for an estimated 18 percent of GDP—a marked increase from 6 percent of GDP in 1965.       View All          Your email…   Sign Up      xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                        All content © 2018 The Hamilton Project . Terms and Conditions .                             CBS News  CBS Evening News  CBS This Morning  48 Hours  60 Minutes  Sunday Morning  Face The Nation  CBSN Originals       GO     Log In      Log In    Join CBSNews.com          CBS Moneywatch  Markets  Money  Work  Small Business  Retirement  Tech  Trending  Video        Get                      By  Steve Vernon  MoneyWatch  October 16, 2014, 5:30 AM  How much longer might you live? Think again          Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email     Consider this: A 65 year-old woman has a 50/50 chance of living another 20 years to age 85, according to an online calculator maintained by the Society of Actuaries (SOA). Similarly, a 65 year-old man has a 50/50 chance of living another 17 years to age 82. This information might cause you some confusion if you've read that the average life expectancy in the U.S. is currently 81 for women and 76 for men. But these are life expectancies from birth -- they don't apply to someone who's already reached age 65.     Play  Video   Health  New research shows U.S. falling behind in life expectancy  A new study being published in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows the United States rates behind other countries when it comes...   Life expectancies at birth calculate the average lifespan for everybody who was born in the same year, and they include people who die before 65. So, if you make it to 65, you're in a more select group of people who've been healthy enough -- or lucky enough -- to make it that far. Many people make this common mistake -- confusing life expectancies at birth with remaining life expectancies at your current age, such as 65. Here's one way to double-check this thinking.  Suppose you're a man who's made it to 80. Clearly, you should have some years of life remaining, but if you relied on life expectancies from birth, you should have been dead by now. Why is this important? This information is critical when it comes to retirement planning. If you're a woman planning how much savings you'll need for retirement, you'll need more money if you live to 85 compared to living to 81 -- an extra four years of necessary retirement income. The same logic applies to a man.     Play  Video   Home  Social Security: How to get the biggest check  When you choose to start taking Social Security impacts your monthly check in a big way. CBS News financial analyst Mellody Hobson shows that the...    And having an idea about how long you might live should influence your decision about when to start your Social Security benefits. So, the first mistake some people make when planning their retirement is underestimating how long they might live, which can lead them to underestimate the amount of money they'll need to last the rest of their lives. The second mistake would be planning to make your savings last just to your average life expectancy. Remember, your life expectancy isn't your destiny. It's just an estimate. You could die well before your average life expectancy -- or well after. For example, the SOA calculator shows that our 65-year-old woman has a 28 percent chance -- a little more than one out of four -- of living another 25 years to age 90. And she has a 32 percent chance -- almost one out of three -- that she'll live only another 15 years to 80. Similarly, our 65-year-old man has a 30 percent chance -- nearly one out of three -- of living another 22 years to 87. And he has a 24 percent chance -- almost one out of four -- of living only another 10 years to 75. This illustrates a significant retirement planning challenge: You don't know how long you'll live, and the range of possible outcomes is large. In these examples, the range of outcomes is 10 years or more around the average life expectancy, although the actual range is much wider when you consider more extreme possibilities such as living a very long time or dying right after after retirement. The actual range of how long you might need your money to last is also much wider if you consider how long one member of a married couple might live. Understanding this means you'll need to plan for the uncertainty about how long you -- and your spouse or partner, if applicable -- will live. You can use the SOA calculator to calculate your remaining life expectancy for various ages -- and the odds of dying before your life expectancy or living beyond it. This calculator also works for couples. This is an important step in retirement planning. As a result, you'll also want to learn as much as you can about the different methods you can use to generate a retirement paycheck that lasts as long as you do, no matter how long you live.   © 2014 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.       Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email        Steve Vernon   On Twitter »   View all articles by Steve Vernon on CBS MoneyWatch»  Steve Vernon helped large employers design and manage their retirement programs for more than 35 years as a consulting actuary. Now he's a research scholar for the Stanford Center on Longevity, where he helps collect, direct and disseminate research that will improve the financial security of seniors. He's also president of Rest-of-Life Communications , delivers retirement planning workshops and authored Money for Life: Turn Your IRA and 401(k) Into a Lifetime Retirement Paycheck and Recession-Proof Your Retirement Years .             Featured in Moneywatch      20 of the coolest places to retire in the world  Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world       10 products you should never buy generic  Generics are a great way to save money in lots of cases, but here is a look at some clear exceptions       Popular        Market Data                              Latest Features       How to check if your Facebook data was shared with Cambridge Analytica         Catt Sadler on her new calling after leaving E! News         Facebook giving rewards for reports of data abuse         "Trade war" portfolio: 4 stocks to watch         Investors cheered by Chinese leader's speech on trade       Market News            Moneywatch Spotlight       5 cars drawing crowds at the New York Auto Show         Trump announces new tariffs on China         3 states open investigations into Cambridge Analytica, Facebook         9 American cities with the worst income inequality   25  Views          Super Bowl 2018 commercials: The best and the worst       Stock Watchlist                New Fire TV App                               Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services . ICE Limitations . Powered and implemented by FactSet .  Legal Statement .     CBSNews.com  Site Map  Help  Contact Us  CBS Bios  Careers  CBSi Careers  Internships  Development Programs    CBS Interactive  Privacy Policy  Ad Choice  Terms of Use  Mobile User Agreement  About CBS  Advertise  Closed Captioning  CBS News Store    Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter  RSS  Email Newsletters  YouTube  CBS News Radio  CBS Local     CBS News    Search       Copyright © 2018 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.            Warning: Vanguard.com will not work properly with JavaScript disabled!                                 Vanguard home Warning This page won't work properly unless JavaScript is enabled.                                                                     Saving for Retirement   Text size:   A  A  A       Plan for a long retirement       Comment E‑mail Share Print     Thanks to healthier lifestyles and breakthroughs in medical technology, life expectancy for Americans has increased significantly during the past half-century. While it's good news that you can expect to live longer in retirement and have a better quality of life, it also means your investment portfolio may need to last for 30 years or more.  For example, here's the likelihood of 65-year-olds living to certain ages, according to figures from the Society of Actuaries:   Male. A 65-year-old man has a 41% chance of living to age 85 and a 20% chance of living to age 90.  Female. A 65-year-old woman has a 53% chance of living to age 85 and a 32% chance of living to age 90.  Couple. If the man and woman are married, the chance that at least one of them will live to any given age is increased. There's a 72% chance that one of them will live to age 85 and a 45% chance that one will live to age 90. There's even an 18% chance that one of them will live to age 95, as shown below.   The following interactive example is designed to estimate the probability of living to a specific age.* You may enter your current age alone—or your and your spouse's current ages—and a number of years to see the chances of living that long.  Probability of living a selected number of years          %               20  15  10  5  0                                                                   6  13  18               Person 2  Person 1      Name          Current age  (Range 20-100)        Gender  Male Female  Male Female       Time frame (Range 20-100)    years      Number of people  1 2            NOTE:  * Calculations are based on mortality data from the Society of Actuaries Retirement Participant 2000 Table.     Print Comment | E‑mail | Share        Also of interest  GUIDES  Saving for retirement  Nearing retirement  Living in retirement  TOOLS  Other retirement planning tools  INVEST NOW  Open an account online  Set up automatic investments                        Your input was invalid                This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Statistics (collected data)  Demographics  People What percentage of people live into their 90s? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Want to learn basic statistic concepts? Sign up for introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Classroom & online courses available. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 8 Answers   A.O. Reid-Marr , I study global problem solving. Answered Mar 28, 2017 · Author has 94 answers and 117.3k answer views I am going to assume that you are looking for global averages, rather than data for specific demographics. Here’s a table based on UN data which can be found here: https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/Down... , the specific file is: Life table survivors (lx) at exact age x - Both Sexes (XLS, 3.45 MB) If we look at the far right column we can see the percentage of people who would live to at least 90 if they were born in the half-decade listed. For example, a person born between 2010 and 2015 has about a 20% chance of living to at least 90, whereas a person born between 1950 and 1955 has about a 2% chance of living to at least 90. Again, these are global averages. Individual life expectancy depends on many other factors, including: location of birth, family income, family education, time of birth, unpredictable global events, etc. 23.5k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Wharton Executive Education Learn business analytics online with Wharton Executive Education. Enroll in this three-month Business Analytics program and turn data into a revenue-producing action. Apply Now at execed-emeritus.wharton.upenn You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below What percentage of people live to the age of 80? What percentage of people live to be at least 25 without having children? What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people living in the year 1600 have descendents who are alive today? What percentage of people can speak Arabic? Ask New Question   Kent Aldershof , worked at Manattan Auto Group Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 3.3k answers and 3.6m answer views According to US government statistics, about 24% of people live to age 90 or above, based on 2012 data published in 2016. Of course, that masks some considerable differences by sex and race; and surely, by some other characteristics not reported (such as urban vs. rural dwellers, education, level of medical care, occupational history, and so on). Just for example, in the total US population nearly 30% of females live into their 90s, but only slightly over 18% of males. Statistics differ widely from one nation to another. A related concern is the life expectancy of people who reach age 90. On average that is just over 4 years for males, and nearly 5 years for females. Such gross statistics have very little relevance regarding any individual, such as yourself. How long you will live is strongly affected by your genetic inheritance, and by your lifestyle. If you have parents and grandparents who lived long lives (other than accidental deaths), your outlook is improved. The more highly you are educated, the longer you are likely to live. People who are married, who have children, and who keep pets generally live longer. Women typically outlive men. Whites live longer than blacks. Hispanics live longer than whites. Japanese in Japan live longer than almost everyone else. They eat whale meat, which is illegal to harvest, and which is eaten almost nowhere else; is that causative? Your nourishment has a big influence on your lifespan. You need lots and lots of vitamins and minerals, proteins and grains, and a very low intake of fats, starches, sugars, and alcohol. Being a smoker shortens your life expectancy, typically by decades. Sedentary work, and especially sedentary leisure, will also reduce your life expectancy by decades. Hazardous work and hazardous recreational activities can bring one’s life to an abrupt and early end; or can cause illnesses or injuries which can be incapacitating and prematurely fatal. Ultimately, you have a very significant degree of control over your life expectancy. People who are optimistic, social, curious, outgoing, helpful, and involved with others live longer than those who are negative, dull, and reclusive. Those who want to live, with a sense of purpose, last longer than those who have given up or who just don’t care. People who take care of themselves, and who have regular medical checkups, definitely outlive those who don’t. Broad statistics, such as the fraction of people who live into their 90s, are essentially meaningless. You need to look into what are the statistics for much more finely divided sub-groups — and into why those statistics differ among the groups. 7.9k Views · View Upvoters   James Martin , Technocrat and serial transformational Entrepreneur Answered Oct 8, 2016 · Author has 262 answers and 177.8k answer views It really depends on whether you base it on the population when they were born and have now lived over 90 years or against the current population. I would argue that it should be based on the rest of the population born back then and have survived until now. Given the world population was just under 2 billion people in 1926 (90 years ago) and the population has almost gained another 6 billion people since then, the percentage that made it is obviously 4 times greater than the statistics when compared to the entire current population. The percentage of people born 90+ years ago that are still alive sits at around 4% today. But that is expected to increase for those born today in 90 years from now to some estimates of 20%. However, given we have a global declining birth rate, and most population growth is now currently through ageing (living longer), the financial strain already on countries’ pension funds to support people for an additional 20+ years, the increased cost of healthcare, elderly care, and reduced worker to retiree ratio we are likely to see voluntary (and in some places mandatory) euthanasia put pressures on keeping those numbers down. Issues like dementia and alzheimer’s also play a big role on the quality of life for those over 90. The question should be who lives in their 90s and who merely exists in their 90s. A sound body and sound mind in your 90s is a life long journey and discipline with a combination of diet, exercise (both physical and mental), will, and attitude. If you live to your 90s, statistically you will have buried all your friends your age. If you had three children in your twenties, you will have outlived two of them. There are a lot of hard realities that go with living into your 90s, but there can be some great rewards if you start working on it before you turn 40. To decide if you want to live to your 90s, you need to look at the longevity in your own family. You have to make a very conscious effort to living as much a possible a low risk, stress reduced life and severely limit sugar, fats, salt that lead to heart disease and chronic poor health. 12.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Udacity.com Develop new tech skills. Be in demand. Learn to use Python, R, SQL, and Tableau to uncover insights and create data-driven solutions. Learn More at udacity.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Matthew Greene , studied at Earth Answered Nov 1, 2015 · Author has 94 answers and 73.6k answer views A person born now would have a 1 in 3 chance in living to their 100th birthday. In current years, the number of people past their 90s have increased by 4 times in the last 30 years to over 400,000. If you're still young and healthy, you have a high chance of living into the 90s. Source: Number of people living past 90 has trebled to 440,000 in the last 30 years Source: How likely are you to live to 100? Get the full data 16k Views · View Upvoters   Dave Ryan , 15 Years Implementing Estimating, Pricing, CRM, ERP and eCommerce Systems Answered Aug 1, 2016 This is a more interesting question than I originally thought. Yuge implications for society 30 years from now. Lots of growth opportunities for life care facilities … but we better come up with new bio-technologies to cure our expensive end of life healthcare maladies (Note: I will be one of those 90 year olds in 30 years) or today’s budget battles between K-12 school funding and SS + medicare will seem quaint. Rather than me replay a good article I suggest reading the following UN paper: http://www.un.org/esa/population... 7.4k Views · View Upvoters   Robert Cameron , former Biology Professor (retired) Answered Nov 3, 2016 · Author has 3.5k answers and 799.3k answer views I like both Mathew’s and Dave’s answers. I have some qualifiers. First it depends where you were born: life expectancy varies a lot between countries. Your best bet (I think) is to be Japanese. Second, all the estimates we read about assume at least the present levels of medical care, diet, ability to suppress the spread of disease; many projections assume these things will continue to improve. I have doubts that these assumptions are true. Leave aside the long-term effects of the obesity epidemic, we should face the possibilities that war, economic collapse and an inability to keep up with resistance in bacteria and viruses may have big effects. We may be at peak life expectancy. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters   Sal Barone , works at Purdue University Answered Apr 25, 2017 · Author has 106 answers and 31.6k answer views Not sure but Gapminder Unveiling the beauty of statistics for a fact based world view. has a lot of that kind of statistics in an easy to use interface. 2k Views · Answer requested by  Cay Cooper   Andrew Targowski , former Professor Emeritus at Western Michigan University (1980-2017) Answered Mar 2, 2017 · Author has 3.4k answers and 485.7k answer views Depending on a country, it is growing number, going to several hundred thounsands in the US. 428 Views Related Questions What percentage of people live in countries of which they are not citizens? What percentage of people use drugs? What percentage of people use computer? What percentage of people in wheelchairs live with pain? What percentage of men live past 90? What percentage of people throughout their entire lives never get arrested in the U.S.? What percentage of people are living in villages in India? What percentage of people worldwide are religious? How many people are living? What percentage of people are born normal? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What percentage of people live to the age of 80? What percentage of people live to be at least 25 without having children? What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people living in the year 1600 have descendents who are alive today? What percentage of people can speak Arabic? What percentage of people live in countries of which they are not citizens? What percentage of people use drugs? What percentage of people use computer? What percentage of people in wheelchairs live with pain? What percentage of men live past 90? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Quality of Life  Longevity  Meaning of Life  Purpose  Aging  Life and Living Is it really worth it to live to over 80 years? Update Cancel ad by Arden Courts Helpful resources from Arden Courts. Loved one diagnosed with Alzheimer's or related dementias? Arden Courts helps with memory care placement. Learn More at arden-courts.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 100 + Answers Quora User , Sailing through life Answered Dec 3, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 863.9k answer views My grandfather passed away at the age of 95 in 2015. Seeing how he lived, I think it’s definitely worth living over 80. He was a farmer until 70. He had amazing health and did not know what fever was until he was 82. He lived in the village, walked everywhere, and took the bus when he traveled to the city to see us. When his grandkids got married, he was so excited to go out and give wedding cards to our relatives. My grandma passed away in the year 2000 and he lived on his own since. He either ate at my aunt’s place or had someone cook for him. He loved his independence. He had a beautiful daily routine. He woke up every morning at the same time at 5.30 am, took a shower, had breakfast, read the newspaper, and walked to the village center to catch up with his buddies. His brother lived opposite his house, so they would chat every evening until it was time to sleep. He was smart and did not have a formal education. He could calculate the principal and interest on loans without using pen and paper. He was the witness when illiterate people around him were borrowing money from one another, so they could be sure they weren’t being cheated. People came to him for advice. They invited him for their wedding and family functions all of which he gladly attended. He was diagnosed with stomach cancer a few months before he passed away. He chose not to do anything about it and passed away in his sleep. 1100 people attended his post-funeral reception. Here’s a picture of him at 92 years old in November 2012. 21.9k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Care.com Senior care help in your area. Keep life on track for aging parents. Find in-home senior care today. Sign Up at care.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Can you live to 80 years without health issues? Why do we only live, on average, 80 years? Is it so the earth doesn't become over populated? How can I live to 100? What percent of men live over 80 years? Is there really a Chinese man who lived to be over 200 years? Ask New Question   Tessa E. Tea , I took anthropology classes in college. Answered May 3, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 1.3k answers and 2.9m answer views My dad just hit his 80th birthday.  We had a big party at a local restaurant with all of his children, their spouses, eight of his nine grandchildren and some of their partners plus several of his good friends.  He got two birthday cakes. A week later, he and my mom went off on their annual European skiing trip with their skiing group to the Alps with a side trip to Prague because they had never been to Prague. He teaches skiing in the winter, hikes and golfs, goes to the beach each year with all his children and their families and travels around the country in the summer with his brothers and their wives. He gave up smoking in the late sixties, took up jogging in the '70s and became serious about physical fitness in the '80s.  He loves good food but is abstemious in his eating habits.  He enjoys good wine but never to an excess.  He likes a cocktail in the evening but only during that week at the beach with his family.  He keeps a journal and is active in his church. He worked his way through college while on an ROTC scholarship and served two years in the Air Force after graduation.  His service entailed living in Japan for nearly two years in the late '50s where officers lived like young millionaires.  They worked hard, but played golf, ate steak dinners at the officers' club and drank good booze for cheap prices.  His first exposure to the ballet was to see Dame Margot Fonteyn dancing with Rudolph Nureyev and the tickets were given free to the officers.   He has been married to my mother for fifty four years and has five children, all of whom graduated from college.  He has two bachelors' degrees and a masters.  He retired early as a director for an international electronics firm and has been reveling in retirement.  He has a lovely home, a devoted wife and a beautiful garden. In a few weeks we will all go to California to see the first of his grandchildren to be married. You tell me if it is worth it to live beyond 80. Depends on how you live. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Warehouse Employee at Coop Schweiz (2011-present) Answered Oct 10, 2016 · Author has 3.2k answers and 3.1m answer views As somebody who is closer to be above 80 than being 25, one cannot avoid to look around to see how really old people are leading their lives. Here in Switzerland, we have a lot of old people, actually even as a man, you can expect to live for 81 years. So one can say, that Switzerland is a “Place for old men”. But in what state do all these people to that age? Unfortunately, by far the most are getting there needing all sorts of care. When talking to folks a bit older than myself you are hard-pressed to meet someone who has not regular doctor’s appointments. Many are popping pills as part of their daily routines. Almost nobody without some sort of surgery. While it might be true that our modern lifestyle has added many years to our lifespan, these additional years are used up in a good part for being sick. Additionally, old people are less mobile and tend to settle down in their neighborhood. In Switzerland, there are A LOT of single seniors. Most having become divorced and never found a new life-partner. Children living far-off their own life. Friends from youth spread out across half of Europe. Physical abilities diminish and one cannot participate anymore in activities like hiking, which are popular with people. This has not to be like that, but all too often unfortunately it is what you will experience. Add to that the specter of pension systems quickly becoming unsustainable and healthcare costs going through the roof, one better gets prepared. Not for some imaginary “Golden years” to come up, where you happily ride into the sunset of your life. Better get prepared to live out your lifespan to remain working and active til your last day. Not full-time as an employee necessarily. Try to not to get sick with chronic disease. And yes, do not worry about getting sick with seasonal flu or the like. Avoid falling into the trap of year-long torture by the medical industry at the end of your life. It is better to go getting the flu than to get your prostata removed at 80 and to live out your last months in and out of a hospital. Life is not a race where you get to win when having lived longer than everybody else. There are way too many people out there who do not really live these years at all. 977 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Boomerang for Gmail Ever wonder how your emails are coming across? Boomerang Respondable uses AI to give you real-time advice on how to improve your emails. Learn More at boomeranggmail.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User Answered Oct 4, 2017 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine My mother will be 90 years old soon. I just asked her how old she feels inside. She said around 20. Her brain is still sharp and fast, even if her body is not. She’s definitely not ready to pack it in. She loves to watch Jeopardy and Wheel of Fortune and is pretty good with her answers. She is also a big fan of baseball and knows the names of all the Blue Jays. She started taking piano lessons two years ago and surprised her family of amateur musicians with her own little Christmas concert. She can still prepare the most divine meals, such as only mothers of her generation could do. I think her secret ingredient is love , because I have all her recipes, yet cannot duplicate her results (according to my daughter). She continues her hobby of quilting, which she used to sew by hand, but now due to her arthritic fingers must use the sewing machine. Everyone in the family has at least one of her quilts. Most recently she started sewing for her great-grandchildren, the ones born so far and a little extra inventory for future babies in case she won’t be around to see them all ( “some grandchildren need to get on with it” ). In her opinion the answer is yes, it certainly is worth living as long as possible. Here are two samples of her most recent quilts: 20.2k Views · View Upvoters   Stan Hayward , former Film/TV scriptwriter Updated Jan 1, 2018 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 4.7k answers and 13.8m answer views I shall be 87 next month I am totally deaf, partially blind, and can only read books with difficulty, so it is many years since I read a book, though I can read a computer screen easily I’m very much overweight, and take pills daily, which I will do for life Problems with legs and lungs make me largely housebound I live alone, apart from my cat, but I am lucky in so far as I can look after myself Most of my friends of my generation are gone, and several are severely ill or have dementia, but also several others of my generation are still working To some extent it is the gene lottery that keeps one going though not always. My father was ill all his life, and died at 43 He, like my mother, could not swim or ride a bicycle I could do both, as of course, could everyone of my generation Both of my grandfathers were illiterate My mother and father could read, but neither ever read a book There were no books in the house other than those I got myself My mother had two still born children prior to myself, and told me that I was a sickly child, so it would seem that neither nurture or Nature favored me So what is it that keeps one going into old age? In my case it was largely the Times one was born in My grandparents born in the 1870–80’s London were poor They worked full time as young teenagers, so denied an education My parents born in 1900, were slightly better off, but as young teenagers were caught up in the 1914–18 war and later the Great Depression. They had few choices in life, and simply accepted that surviving was meeting the battles of the day My generation - 1930’s - were again better off, but there were few people I knew who owned a phone or a car, and even a radio was a luxury, but we did have one thing; WW2 Yes, WW2 had its downsides, but it did provide free travel, and a wide range of opportunities to be educated, and meet people if you were in the military, and if not, work was plentiful. My mother who had earned a pitiful living as a house cleaner before the war, was now a machine operator in a wartime munitions factory, and getting relatively good money Wartime, for my generation who are now in the 70–90’s, had to look after themselves. Not so much in the USA, quite a bit in the UK, and totally in war-torn Europe There was a great sense of purpose that a ‘World fit for heroes’ might exist, though not quite In answer to the question ‘Is it worth it to live over 80 years? ’ My grandparents never knew, nor my parents, though a few crossed the line It is common enough in my generation, but there is a ‘Dark zone’ where you know that even a slight illness can lead to complications But today, anyone under 60 will most likely live past 80 and will do so in the knowledge that they are generally a button away from getting help if needed What can you do if you make it to 80? Well, if your brain and heart are in relatively good condition, you will be surprised to know that you will feel about 40, or even less If you want to make it to 80, my advice is go for it You will not be short of company EDIT Several people have commented about their elderly relatives who suffer from illness and loneliness. It has been suggested that more people die of loneliness than illness, but worse, many who suffer from loneliness are neither ill nor old Part of the problem is both obvious and yet invisible. Here is a typical 1930’s sitting room of the sort I grew up in. No black boxes with shiny knobs and buttons. Somewhere a large radio; shelves with a few treasured possessions. Every such room would have a personality of the owner. Designed to be warm and comfortable. One could go into most houses and recognize all the items; a windup clock; a sewing basket; a few books (no TV), a coal fire with coal tongs and poker, and a bucket of coal beside the fire, and a toasting fork (In this picture you can see a small hand pump on the left hand side of the fireplace. It was used to blow air when you started the fire every day, that is, after you had raked the cinders out, made firelighters out of rolled up newspapers, sorted out unburnt cinders, and cleaned up. You bought small bundles of wood as fire starters, and if you had the money, then you could buy wax covered paper that lit up instantly (what luxury) Every technological advancement took away a minor joy. The electric toaster took away the joy of using a toasting fork to make toast in front of an open coal fire that you stared into, as if hypnotized as the coal burnt and created shapes. The toast would be covered in home made jam. One felt safe in such surroundings When my mother made an apple pie, I saw her make the dough, roll it out, peel the apples, stoke the cast iron stove, boil the custard, lay the table, poke the pie with a knife to see if it was cooked, then deliver it triumphantly straight from the oven to us as we waited in anticipation On first taste, we look at her and say ‘It’s delicious, can I have a second helping’. She would smile. It was her way of saying ‘I love you all’, and our way of saying ‘We know you do’ Technology has given us microwave ovens, precooked pies, and tinned custard, but there is one ingredient they left out That is why the elderly are lonely 181.8k Views · View Upvoters   Barry Hampe , 80-something grandfather, husband, atheist, writer, pilot, libertarian, sage Updated Sep 21, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 9.1k answers and 18m answer views Is it really worth it to live to over 80 years? I mean you would have a decreased quality of life. And a lot of the people you know would start to die off. Having passed my 81st birthday in July, I have to say that it beats the alternative. If I had died at 79 I would not have experienced watching the granddaughter that I have helped care for since she was a baby, grow into a little girl who just beams love at her Papa and her Nana. (As do her three older sisters.) I would not be here to be engaged in a new family adventure taking place this year. And my quality of life is just fine. For example, I recently had cataract surgery on both eyes and now can see without glasses for the first time in 40 years. Yes, I don't run any marathons. But I never did. Most people seem to think I still make sense when I answer questions on Quora (except for a couple of folks I had to block -- you know who you are). I still drive, do the shopping. I watch movies on a big screen at home. It's still a good life. 111.4k Views · View Upvoters   Colleen Farrelly , Data Scientist/Poet/Social Scientist/Topologist (2009-present) Answered Feb 22, 2018 · Author has 6.2k answers and 6.2m answer views I am still young, but my grandmother is in her mid-90's. She enjoys visits from the neighbors and relatives. She has taken up many hobbies and intellectual pursuits since my grandfather passed (in their 80's). She wants to live to see the future and what sort of technology/robots/other gadgets will be invented. She's been involved in research studies of living healthy after 80 because she loves research and figuring out tough puzzles like genomics. My grandfather lived well into his 80's and probably would still be going if the VA hadn't given him MRSA. He was fixing cars and re-roofing the house at 88. I have no doubt he'd be tinkering around in the garage or engineering room in their house if he were still alive. He didn't have an education but loved to learn and tinker. I was born when they were older than most grandparents, and my cousins came along when they were close to 80. They very much enjoyed seeing us grow up and being able to grandparent. My grandma has watched us grow up (me at 32 and my youngest cousin at 19), and she's fought hard to live well into old age to see that. 3.2k Views · View Upvoters   Melanie Arabsky Ledger , worked at IT Project Management Answered Feb 19, 2018 · Author has 450 answers and 715.9k answer views My dad is 88, he and my mom (who is 78) sold their house and moved into a townhouse ( sectional title) three years ago so that my dad could stop having to go up the ladder and clean the gutters, take care of the whole yard, other house maintenance etc. In those three years he’s completely transformed the little yard the townhouse had and has a little vegetable garden going in alongside the flower borders… He is the only person I’ve ever heard of who actually totally wore out an exercise bike – we got him a new one, he also enjoys using an elliptical machine. He had a heart attack scare almost 30 years ago and has been faithfully exercising ever since - his favourite TV viewing while exercising is Judge Judy! My mom has just been diagnosed with Parkinson’s, which in many ways is a relief because it puts the name and diagnosis on the changes and difficulties she’s experienced over the past few years. They both spend a lot of time at their church helping out and socializing. So he is In good health and they are living independently. My sister and I are less than an hour away and make an effort to see them frequently, and our collective three kids kids love to visit them. Now that mom is on her Parkinson’s medication she’s also feeling good enough to come to our house for dinners, but we also enjoyed bringing a spread to their house so we could still treat them to dinner when mom wasn’t comfortable leaving the house.. So depending on who you are, I think 80 is very early cut off for healthy, happy and independent life! 19.7k Views · View Upvoters   Eva Newman , A bio for aging?? Not yet! I'm not old enough. Answered May 1, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen · Author has 660 answers and 1.1m answer views Thank you for the A2A. I'm only 70, so you will have to wait for an answer, but i'll let you know in 10 years. For the moment, I live no different than I did when 30 or 40 and sadly am not much wiser either. Most things I can think of have a more positive rather than negative aspect although climbing 4 flights of stairs does get me out of breath nowadays. (re read this sentence and had to change it. 4 flights of stairs nowadays sorta make me crawl on all fours after panting the first three flight, and I have considering not making it to the fourth floor and sleeping on the stairs.  Sex has also decreased, now down to two or three times a week (no visualising please), but that is more due to my partner than to me. Opening jars has become more difficult due to slight arthritis in my right hand, but i'm capable of sleeping on a jungle floor and riding motorbikes through illegal parts of foreign countries. Upside is kidnappers aren't really interested in kidnapping a 70 year old woman, I can vouch for that, having run into a couple in  Sabah  (Borneo)...they kidnapped a younger couple a few weeks after I met them, but that was already two or three years ago, when I was still a young whipper snipper... Cheers. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters   Herma Swij , Into measuring the human body according it's parts. Answered Apr 30, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 730.6k answer views Every day alive is worth it, regardless ones age. Event though elderly people often have health complaints and sometimes are lonely and dependent on others at the same time, most of them are happy to wake up every morning. Elderly people often seem to be aware of the preciousness of life even more than young people and are able to enjoy the small things in life. I know a lot of elderly people above 80, including my mother, who I have to call several days before visiting them, so they can fit me in their busy schedule. They sometimes get tired of life due to all the small and sometimes bigger pains in their body, and all the inconveniences of an elderly body, but in general that's just temporary, it just lasts till the next high tea or Rummikub tournament. 4.1k Views · View Upvoters   Ali Bakrolwala , I have travelled to 17 countries, 3 continents and 12 States Answered Dec 4, 2017 · Author has 806 answers and 1.7m answer views Yes, it is. My father is 83. A practicing Doctor. (MBBS). Though he retired from service in 1992, he started his private practice the next day he retired. He is a pensioner too. My father is a COPD(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patient and he had to be operated in 1962 and half of his lung was removed. Since then a disciplined lifestyle, healthy eating habits, waking up and sleeping habits, work and hobbies keep him healthy, with the grace of God. (My father and me). My father was practicing in Lunawada(Gujarat) since 1964 and shifted to Vadodara(in his home where I stay) in 2015, and since then he is giving voluntary(free) service in a Relief Clinic near our home, 1 hour in the morning and 1 hour in the evening. His daily routine is, getting up at 5 am, doing Pranayam, for 45 minutes(that is a strict regime since his COPD surgery), prayers, breakfast at 6.30/7 am, reading newspapers and meeting someone who comes to visit him till 9.30 am. At 10–11 he goes to the clinic, then he goes to the nearby market to buy fruits/vegetables and reaches home by 11.30. He has his hobby in writing and he writes after that, then lunch, afternoon siesta, and back to the clinic at 4.30–5.30 pm. He goes for evening prayers and later we have dinner and he sleeps by 10 pm. He sends his written works to the local newspapers and they get printed sometimes. My mother is 79, and she is B.Sc .(Home Science), she is a RMP(Rural Medical Practitioner) too, and assisted my father in his clinic. She is a social worker and president of, Lunawada Sahakari Gruh Mandi since 1982. She was also a member of the Lunawada Nagarpalika(corporator) in 1990. She is a member of Sardar Sahakari Udyog Limited in Vadodara and was the chief guest to Hoist the flag on 15th August. Our family at the venue, My parents 53 anniversary, Me and my parents, Hence it is worth living to 80 or more but you need a disciplined lifestyle, work and hobbies that make each day a day to look forward too. 862 Views · View Upvoters   Indrayani Chakraborty , worked at I Work Independently. Answered Sep 29, 2017 · Author has 70 answers and 87.5k answer views Depends. My grand parents lived for 85 and 90 years.. Had typical geriatric problems, but yet lived a healthy life. However, of note there was a family of over 8 children and 16 grand children around them to take care of them. So they could afford to fall sick, get hospitalized, be on medication…blah blah The problem with today’s generation is there is no strong social/family support system. Most of us in India have moved away from the joint family to nuclear family structure with one or two children. Our lifestyle is not as healthy as our grand parents. That makes us prone to lifestyle disorders at a very young age. I personally believe I would like to live up to age 60 so that my children do not have to take the burden of my illness/ geriatric problems. Besides at that age, the quality of life would be very impaired. Every day might be a new pain - blindness, deafness, high BP, diabetes, joint pain and what not! So upto 60 is good enough 341 Views · View Upvoters   Jacky Dror , freedom of thought knows no bounds Answered Aug 27, 2016 · Author has 3.3k answers and 6.1m answer views What would you suggest? Have you got a cut off age in mind when we old folk should start jumping off a cliff? I know - I know, it is quite usual when you are young and have your whole life ahead of you to think that old people are surplus to requirements and good for nothing except sponging from the state with our pensions and free travel passes. Although I am a young 70 now, I did feel this way, especially after the Brexit vote in the UK when the young were upset with the older generation who by and large were responsible for the out vote. The young Remainers were basically saying “we are the ones that have our lives ahead of us, you have had the best part of yours, you really should not count any more. You are responsible for ruining our future”. Of course that was really hard to take and how wrong this assumption was. Firstly since the Brexit vote the UK has not collapsed and the Remainers said it would. Only this week they announced that profits are up in many respects. Exports are up. True the pound has weakened a little but it is early days yet. It will recover. The oldsters are still going about their business. Yes we should count. No we should not be written off. My aunt has just died a couple of months ago. She was 92. Until she had her accident at 90 (broken her hip being knocked down by a car) she was still maintaining a home of her own - carer for my uncle 94 and blind. She went shopping with my cousin. She cooked. She socialised. Even after the accident she survived in her own home for another couple of years. I went to visit her every week. She always made me laugh. An absolutely amazing woman. My uncle is now alone being cared for by his 2 sons and 2 daughters. Of course he is quite depressed being left after being married over 60 years, but that is life. There are so much positives to be said by reaching old age. We are off of that extreme treadmill of trying to succeed. We are already there. We do not have to worry about achieving or extreme competition, or keeping up appearances. Most of us are by now in better financial situations than the struggling young trying to get on housing ladders. We have nurtured our children and now sit back with pride watching our grandchildren grow stage by stage. We can look after them with all the strength we have, and then give them back at the end of the day. It is a win win situation. Health of course, plays a big part in how well we proceed to our old age. Not the fact that people are dying around us. Young people unfortunately die too, and when we reach a certain age we understand that is the way of the world. When you will get here eventually you too will understand, the quality of life does not decrease, in fact in many ways it actually ‘grows’. 1.3k Views · View Upvoters   Peter T Mayer , Founder at Myfingerprintart.com Answered Feb 21, 2017 · Author has 2.1k answers and 31.6m answer views I think it depends on your physical and mental health and whether you have a family and friends who care for you and visit you. I am only 39 but I have a lot of old people in my life, starting with my own parents. The ones that are happy over the age of 80 are the ones that are healthy enough to be able to still do most of the things they did when they were younger and also who have good mental health. Once older people’s health condition starts deteriorating, it is harder for them to find strong reasons to live. Unless they have loving kids and grandkids who care for them. That is definitely and extra motivation for their hunger to live. Being alone when you are old is one of the saddest things you can experience. If you know old people, please visit them, call them and show them in general that you love them and respect them. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Alex Ladov Answered Oct 18, 2017 · Author has 628 answers and 663.7k answer views In 1991 I worked in Hamburg/Germany in “Alten und Pflegeheim” i.e. in Nursing home care - Wikipedia I saw many people over 80, over 90 and some over 100. And very few who really lived. The thing is that to reduce workload and sometimes childish requests (even Germans want some attention from time to time), ALL residents were given a small cup of pills every day, they called them vitamins but I guess that included painkillers and sedatives too. Most of these elderly people could walk, eat and defecate, but they practically could not talk to each other (in addition to pills, most people in Hamburg are not communicative at all). Most of them were never or very rarely visited by children/grandchildren. Mostly vegetable-like life without any purpose, just watching TV in their own rooms and minimal communication with cleaning and other personnel. I would rather die than live such life. Maybe I skipped some Quora responses, but I didn’t see any from a nursing home. All answers from old people are from those who live independently or with children. Then life is worth living of course. But if you become just a brainless burden taking time and money from younger generation - life makes no sense. Perhaps we should have option of donation to a worthy cause in exchange for dying voluntarily when life in not worth living anymore. Modern medicine can provide life-support to our bodies well beyond ability to live normally, and nowadays people die simply when doctors decide to stop artificially prolonged life. I would prefer to die voluntarily at 80 if I knew that my relatives will get some money from my pension. 502 Views · View Upvoters   Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 910 answers and 793.3k answer views Clearly as things currently stand I would imagine that commonsense is you want to check out before you reach the stage of becoming dysfunctional and in extreme pain with no quality of life but even at 80+ some people are still very functional, for example my uncle is 83 and still traveling long haul with a trip every month to somewhere, Arizona last month, Tenerife next month and the Bahamas currently for two weeks, frankly even I would be exhausted by his routine and I am a seasoned traveler! His life in his 80s is still great and he uses an iPhone, iPad etc and is always learning and planning, his only fear is it ending! As a researcher into aging I am often asked to define what aging is so here is my definition - Aging is the progressive and inexorable accumulation of molecular and cellular damage which leads to loss of physical function increasing infirmity, elevated risk of chronic illness, and ultimately death - . Once we address those issues by repairing the accumulated damage we will be pretty much home and dry and living a long life will no longer automatically go hand in hand with infirmity and suffering. Throughout our history if there has been a route by which we can lead healthier, happier and more productive lives we have tended to take it and that is the reason why anti-aging medicine will progress down exactly the same route and why arguments such as we are interfering with nature, it’s morally wrong etc simply do not have any validity at all. As soon as we had the means, historically we have tackled all of the diseases which tended to kill people, for example, polio, smallpox — which used to kill millions. Infections which were one of the main killers before we had antibiotics because you must keep in mind that people could simply cut themselves while they were working in their backyard or women could suffer an infection during childbirth, which would kill both her and the baby. Even worse, something simple such as an infected finger or toe could lead to amputation of the whole hand or foot because there was no other route to bring the infection under control, even that frequently didn't work because there was no way that you could actually prevent infection which could arise from the amputation itself. These days not only are there antibiotics but we have retroviral drugs to tackle AIDS, we have insulin to manage diabetes, Ace inhibitors and beta-blockers to tackle high blood pressure, the list is endless. Add in all the surgical procedures such as cataract surgery, new joints and all sorts of other interventions such as cardiac surgery, for example, a heart bypass or stents which increase the person's quality of life and the trend is pretty obvious. As soon as we can bring aging under a decisive level of clinical control, clearly we will. The most bizarre thing in my mind is that we seem to try and tackle the main diseases of aging such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, arthritis and neurodegenerative diseases individually but what we seem to fail to grasp is we're not actually attacking the root cause which is aging itself we are simply attacking the end result. Tackle aging and you would inevitably address the diseases of aging because these conditions mainly affect old people and do not frequently strike at the young. We don't know at this stage exactly how far off the first effective anti-aging therapies are but what we can reasonably assume is they are probably no less than 10 years away and probably not much more than 30 years so for many people alive now being confronted with many of the diseases of aging will not arise because the conditions will be under a decisive level of biomedical control. 474 Views · View Upvoters   Michael Jordan , Writer  at Health (2003-present) Answered Apr 2, 2018 Why don't Americans want to live longer? 1. The more you associate medical treatment with higher quality of life, the more you favor life extension. Respondents who think “medical treatments these days are worth the costs because they allow people to live longer and better quality lives” are evenly divided on the idea of extending life to 120 years. Forty-eight percent say it would be good for society; 46 percent say it would be bad. But respondents who say “medical treatments these days often create as many problems as they solve” are firmly against life extension. By a ratio of nearly 2-to-1—60 to 33 percent—they say it would be bad for society. 2. The more you associate longevity with productivity, the more you favor life extension. Respondents who think that if people lived to 120, “our economy would be more productive because people could work longer” believe by a lopsided margin—65 to 29 percent—that such longevity would be good for society. Those who don’t think people would work longer or increase productivity take the opposite view: Seventy-two percent say extended life would be bad for society. 3 . The more you see extended life as a resource burden, the more you oppose it. By a ratio of nearly 2-to-1, respondents who think that “longer life expectancies would strain our natural resources” say that living to 120 would be bad for society. Respondents who reject the strained-resources claim draw the opposite conclusion: Fifty-nine percent say extended life would be socially beneficial. 4. The more you see old folks as a problem, the more you oppose life extension. Respondents who think having “more elderly people” is good for society are evenly split on extending life to 120 years. Respondents who think having more elderly people is bad solidly oppose this increase in longevity: Seventy-one percent say it would be bad for society. 5 . The older you are, the less likely you are to favor life extension. Respondents ages 18 to 29 are closely divided: Forty-eight percent say that living to 120 would be good for society. In the next bracket, ages 30 to 49, support slips just a tad: Forty-six percent say living the extra decades would be good. At ages 50 to 64, support drops to 37 percent. At ages 65 and older, support drops to 31 percent. When respondents are asked whether they personally would want treatments to extend life by decades, the trend isn’t as clear, but it’s similar: The percentage who say yes falls from 43 percent in the 30–49 age bracket to 35 percent in the 50–64 age bracket and then to 31 percent in the 65-and-older bracket. The simplest explanation for this pattern is that the older you are, the harder it is to imagine your extra decades as healthy and vibrant. 6. The less you’re looking forward to the next decade, the less you favor life extension. Among respondents who think their lives will be better in the next 10 years, 42 percent say they’d want treatments so they could live to 120. Among respondents who think their lives will be the same, 35 percent say they’d want such treatments. Among those who think their lives will be worse, only 28 percent want the treatments. 7. People don’t want to live past the age at which severe diseases and disabilities are expected. When respondents are asked how long they’d like to live, fewer than 10 percent choose 100 or older. Twenty percent want to live into their 90s. Thirty-two percent want to live into their 80s. Thirty percent don’t want to make it past 80. Why do most people want to die before they reach 90? Probably because being 90 sucks. But that’s true only because of the current rate of physical decline. These 5 steps reveal the things you absolutely MUST AVOID if you want to slow the aging process, reclaim your health, and achieve your ideal body. 715 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Caporegime at Mafia II (2016-present) Answered Sep 27, 2017 · Author has 200 answers and 104.9k answer views My paternal Grandfather never used a walking stick and used to do all his chores himself. He had no medical restrictions on the type of food to be consumed. Except nuts because his teeth weren't as supportive as the rest of him. His memory was in-tact, he enjoyed great respect from everyone because he used to do some social work and help poor people financially. He passed away naturally at the age of 84 . My paternal Grandmother starting using a walking stick four years prior to her death. She too had no medical restrictions on her food, she even used to drink cream milk until the very last. Her teeth were stronger. She helped in household chores daily and cooked food. She enjoyed her last years playing with her great-grandson. She passed away naturally at the age of 90 . Both of them attended all of their grandson’s weddings(except me). Seeing their children prosper and share great unity and love between each other left them with no worries or regrets. I think it was totally worth it! 258 Views · View Upvoters   Michael Clarke , Founder & CEO (2017-present) Answered Nov 24, 2017 · Author has 227 answers and 1.6m answer views Is Cilla right to say life's NOT worth living after 75? Despite being 67, Cilla Black has insisted she had no desire to ‘linger’ into old age. Should she be applauded or does life only get better with age? Three women join the debate. RIGHT says Virginia Ironside, 66 So, what’s your response to hearing the news that 67-year-old Cilla Black doesn’t want to live beyond 75? Shock? Horror? Or do you feel, as I do: ‘Good for her!’ Every time I hear of another kind of medical intervention that means we might live longer, my heart sinks. Not because I don’t like life — indeed, I’ve been happier since I turned 60 than ever before — but because in my book we live far too long already. At 66, and already living far longer than centuries of my forefathers, I feel I am on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus. Good f0r Cilla! Virginia Ironside agrees, feeling she is on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus Good for Cilla! Virginia Ironside agrees, feeling she is on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus There are two particular reasons I applaud Cilla and go along with her views. The first is that, like Cilla, who saw her mother live her last years in agony with osteoarthritis, I don’t want to become helpless, dependent and suffering. And although it’s true that I might not become like that, the odds shorten with every passing year. Already, I’m staggering about without a colon, and I’m not looking forward to having two operations on my feet in the future on joints that have ‘degenerated’. As the great Sigmund Freud, in his dotage, wrote in a letter to a friend: ‘I still cannot get used to the grief and afflictions of old age, and I look ­forward with longing to the journey into the void.’ The second reason I back Cilla is that, however much we campaign, rightly, that the old should be treated with dignity, the truth is that soon we won’t be able to afford it. By 2030, there’ll be so many old ­people and so few young ones, there just won’t be the manpower to keep the oldies going in a decent way, let alone the resources. Not only that, there comes a moment when dignity becomes impossible. If I have to be changed and dressed and toileted, or I have to spoonfed, it doesn’t matter how much they call me ‘Miss Ironside’ and avert their eyes, it’s undignified, full stop. ­Personally, I’d prefer not to experience it. I was recently part of a discussion on Ageing and Medicine, and everyone was saying how wonderful old people are, as, indeed, many are, and how they should be treated with respect and go on for as long as possible. My view that we shouldn’t live too long after 70 was met with horror. WRONG says Katharine Whitehorn, 82 Cilla Black’s comments about life not being worth living after the age of 75 reminded me of a misguided babysitter we once had — the girl mourned the arrival of her 17th birthday, afraid she was beginning the end of her youth. Cilla is just as wrong to fear life in her late 70s and beyond. No one would deny that life is not a bundle of laughs if you have two or three diseases and a pressing need for a high-speed stairlift that gets you upstairs before you’ve forgotten why you wanted to go. But nor is being ill or incapacitated at any age, and there are huge differences between those at the beginning of their older age and those, maybe 20 or 30 years later, crumbling towards the end. I had a great-aunt who said with some irritation: ‘After 90, I find one ages rather.’ Another extremely fiesty aunt drove me up the highest pass in the British Isles when she was 91; she used to talk about all the fun she’d had in her 80s when she was governor of one school and running a bursary fund for another. Perhaps women like those were the forerunners of this new generation of sprightly retirees we see today. I’m 82 and I have plenty of contemporaries who go on cruises, or a camel-trek across the Australian Outback; others learn Italian, ­volunteer for charities or even start new ones. And then there are those who, if they’ve had interesting lives, write books (my late husband, thriller writer Gavin Lyall, used to ask ­irritably why so many people who’d got bored with their own careers tended to relapse into his). What’s missing from our thinking — and Cilla’s — is the realisation that life is no longer divided into three parts: first childhood and youth; then adult life, when one works and women had children; and finally Old Age, past it, drooling, in a wheelchair, needing care. These 5 steps reveal the things you absolutely MUST AVOID  if you want to slow the aging process, reclaim your health, leave longer and achieve your ideal body. 4.6k Views · View Upvoters   Brian Sniatkowski , 58 years old and feeling it. Answered May 16, 2016 · Author has 2.8k answers and 1.2m answer views It all depends on your attitude and health. Taking care of yourself in your earlier years can go a long way to enjoying life in your 80′s and sometimes it is simply a matter of good genes. I look at my mom and dad. Dad is 83 and mom is 82. My mom looks and acts like someone 20 years younger. A supermarket cashier recently mistook her for my wife (I’m 57). She is incredibly active, spending time driving her grandchildren to their many activities, playing card games with others in her retirement village, walking on the beach, surfing Facebook, swimming, cooking, reading and traveling. My dad on the other hand shows every bit of his 83 years. The pills he has to take every day, I have no idea how he keeps up with them. Yet he happily sits in his weelchair (which he chose to confine himself to, his physicians and therapists say he could walk if he really tried). He can bathe himself, use the bathroom and get in and out of bed on his own. He is content to wake up at 5 am, read some and eagerly awaits the morning newspaper. He enjoys a couple of glasses of wine at dinner time, discussing sports and politics, ordering useless items on Amazon, then watching the cable news programs until he goes to bed about 8. Not the sort of life I would want at that age, but he is content and has no interest in dying. Both still have strong minds and that is important. People can obviously live passable and sometimes very rewarding lives into their 80′s and beyond. 837 Views · View Upvoters 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next → Related Questions What 10 things can I do now to have a better life? Can a man live for 200 years? Is an 80 year old lifespan good? What makes life worth living? How can I live 80 years when I am 16 years old right now? Is it worth living past 70? How can I live up to 70-80 years old? Do you think it’s worth living past 100 years old? Is life worth living after 30? What percentage of people live to the age of 80? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Can you live to 80 years without health issues? Why do we only live, on average, 80 years? Is it so the earth doesn't become over populated? How can I live to 100? What percent of men live over 80 years? Is there really a Chinese man who lived to be over 200 years? What 10 things can I do now to have a better life? Can a man live for 200 years? Is an 80 year old lifespan good? What makes life worth living? How can I live 80 years when I am 16 years old right now? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Statistics (collected data)  Populations  Aging  Demographics  Life and Living What percentage of people live to the age of 80? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Want to learn basic statistic concepts? Sign up for introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Classroom & online courses available. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 5 Answers   Twyla Naythias , Geekus Maximus (yes, it's legit) Answered Jan 5, 2016 · Author has 872 answers and 3.6m answer views Originally Answered: What percentage of people live past 80? The answer is fairly complex , as it also has a lot to do with when you're born. Among those who are presently 80 years old (born in 1935), 40% of men and 57% of women are still around.  The stats are clearly skewed in favor of women, though it should be noted that this demographic were the primary candidates for involvement with the wars in Korea and Vietnam. Among those who are presently 50 years old (born in 1965), 56.5% of men and 67.1% of women can expect to see eighty candles on their birthday cakes. Things are just a tiny bit more optimistic for near-millennials, with 60.3% of men and 70.4% of women likely to reach their 80th birthdays.  Barely 3% better odds than those thirty years their seniors. Not a great deal of difference among newborns, though things are beginning to shape up for men.  63.7% of boys and 72.8% of girls born this past year will live long enough to look forward to the 22nd century. 69.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below How is life at the age of 70-80? Does one get scared of death? My mom, who is healthy at 80, has dreams of death. What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people actually live to the age of their life expectancy? What percentage of people live into their 90s? At what age do most people die? Ask New Question   Michael Sierchio Answered Jan 20, 2018 The above histogram doesn’t directly answer your question, but - in the US, median life expectancy in 2011 was 78.7 years. Roughly half of all persons in the US are expected to live past 80. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Wharton Executive Education Learn business analytics online with Wharton Executive Education. Enroll in this three-month Business Analytics program and turn data into a revenue-producing action. Apply Now at execed-emeritus.wharton.upenn You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Lonnie Tubb , former Retired Businessman (1962-1995) Answered Jan 18, 2017 Between 1980 and 2010 the death rate for men fell by 48 per cent and for women by 39 per cent. Scotland had the highest rate (785 deaths per 100,000 population for men and 552 for women) in the United Kingdom and England the lowest (639 and 456), while the rates have also declined the least north of the border. Back in 1980, more than half of all men and just under half of all women died between 60 and 79 years of age. But by 2010, increasing longevity meant that 43.3 per cent of men and 62 per cent of women died after their 80th birthday. “As the UK population continues to age, the percentage of all UK deaths at age 80 and over is also expected to continue increasing,” the ONS said. At the same time, the number of children dying has fallen so that girls and boys aged under 15 now account for just 1 per cent of deaths in Britain, now from 2 per cent in 1980. 19.7k Views · View Upvoters   Jacob Braniger Answered Mar 9, 2018 · Author has 109 answers and 9.2k answer views To add on to the other answers: These statistics do not represent how long you will live. If you want the number more specific to you, then look up life expectancy for people your age. Life expectancy is greatly affected by infant and child mortality rates, so if you lived through those years, your life expectancy will (and will always) go up. 733 Views   Justin Gleen , General Answered Apr 4, 2017 · Author has 472 answers and 154.2k answer views Hard to really answer without going over statistics and general population, I would say just due to things I've read and family/friends I've known. Majority of them have live up to and even past 80. So if I had to give a guess somewhere frommmm about 65–75% of people 17.1k Views · Answer requested by  Len Boylan promoted  by Care.com Senior care help in your area. Keep life on track for aging parents. Find in-home senior care today. Sign Up at care.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions What percentage of Americans live to be quite old (age 80 or older) and never suffer significant symptoms of dementia? What percentage of men live over the age of 60? Why do people live to different age? Do people that live beyond the age of 80 years old expected to live that long? What percentage of men live past 90? How do people die of old age? How many people or what percentage of people die before reaching age 30? At what age are people considered old? When people say, "People live to 110," what exact or average age do they live to? What percentage of Latinos live to age 93? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How is life at the age of 70-80? Does one get scared of death? My mom, who is healthy at 80, has dreams of death. What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people actually live to the age of their life expectancy? What percentage of people live into their 90s? At what age do most people die? What percentage of Americans live to be quite old (age 80 or older) and never suffer significant symptoms of dementia? What percentage of men live over the age of 60? Why do people live to different age? Do people that live beyond the age of 80 years old expected to live that long? What percentage of men live past 90? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact                 October 2012           ODDS OF LIVING TO RETIREMENT AT AGE 65       Of 1,000 Men...    Of 1,000 Men at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  161  84%    35  155  84%    40  148  85%    45  138  86%    50  123  88%    55  100  90%    60  62  94%    Of 1,000 Women...    Of 1,000 Women at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  126  87%    35  121  88%    40  116  88%    45  109  89%    50  97  90%    55  78  92%    60  47  95%    Inadequate retirement savings can keep you from realizing your retirement dreams! Are you making effective use of your business to achieve your retirement planning goals?       MESSAGES from the Masters...      THREE KEYS TO GREATNESS  by Jim Rohn  Several
years ago I went into the studio and recorded a 56-minute video for
teenagers called "Three Keys To Greatness." Although my focus was for
teenagers, the principles I shared certainly apply to adults as well.  Recently I was asked to list these three things using one to two sentences for each.  Now for your benefit here they are again.  1) Setting Goals. I call it the view of the future. Most people, including kids, will pay
the price if they can see the promise of the future. So we need to help
our kids see a well-defined future, so they will be motivated to pay
the price today to attain the rewards of tomorrow. Goals help them do
this.  2) Personal Development. Simply making consistent investments in our self-education and
knowledge banks pays major dividends throughout our lives. I suggest
having a minimum amount of time set aside for reading books, listening
to audiocassettes, attending seminars, keeping a journal and spending
time with other successful people. Charlie Tremendous Jones says you
will be in five years the sum total of the books you read and the
people you are around.  3) Financial Planning. I call it the 70/30 plan. After receiving your paycheck or paying
yourself, simply setting aside 10% for saving, 10% for investing and
10% for giving, and over time this will guarantee financial
independence for a teenager.  If
a young person, or for that matter an adult, focused on doing these
three simple things over a long period of time I believe they will be
assured success!  To Your Success, Jim Rohn          Brought to you by:     Jeffrey N. Schweitzer, EPA, CEP, ATP   Northeast Financial Strategies Inc  667 South Street  Wrentham, MA  02093  800-560-4637    jeff@nfsnet.com    http://www.nfsnet.com About our firm: Offering Financial & Estate Planning, Investments, Insurance, Accounting, Payroll, and  Income Tax Preparation for Individuals & Small Business.    "Financial Strategies That Fit YOUR Needs!"     QUOTES from the Masters...       On Expectation       "Look for the good in every person and every situation.  You'll almost always find it."  -- Brian Tracy  "Life...It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations."  -- Richard M. DeVos  "Don't join an easy crowd; you won't grow. Go where the expectations and the demands to perform are high."  -- Jim Rohn       On Entrepreneurism       "Entrepreneurial leadership requires the ability to move quickly when opportunity presents itself."  -- Brian Tracy  "Kids ought to have two bicycles, one to ride and one to rent."  -- Jim Rohn  "The future will be owned and operated by the entrepreneurially minded."  -- Mark Victor Hansen        The
purpose of this newsletter is to provide information of general
interest to our clients, potential clients and other professionals. The
information provided is general in nature and should not be considered
complete information on any product or concept described.  For more complete information, please contact my office at the phone number above.  Published by The Virtual Assistant; © 2012 VSA, LP    We
don't want to add to your e-mail clutter! If you do not enjoy my
newsletter, just reply to this e-mail and ask to be removed or call my
office.  Thanks!                          Turn autoplay off  Turn autoplay on    Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off      Jump to content [s]  Jump to comments [c]  Jump to site navigation [0]  Jump to search [4]  Terms and conditions [8]      Edition:  UK  US  AU     About us    About us,    Contact us    Press office    Guardian Print Centre    Guardian readers' editor    Observer readers' editor    Terms of service    Privacy policy    Advertising guide    Digital archive    Digital edition    Guardian Weekly    Buy Guardian and Observer photos        Today's paper    Main section    G2 features    Comment and debate    Editorials, letters and corrections    Obituaries    Other lives    Sport    Film & music    Subscribe       Subscribe              Home    UK    World    Sport    Football    Opinion    Culture    Economy    Lifestyle    Fashion    Environment    Tech    Travel    Money         News      Datablog                        Next    Previous    Blog home     How likely are you to live to 100? Get the full data  More than a quarter of children aged 16 will see their 100th birthdays. Find out how likely you are to get there • Get the data         A girl born this year has a one-in-three chance of reaching their 100th birthday, while boys have a one-in-four chance, the Office for National Statistics figures show. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian    We're all living longer . But how many of us will live to 100?  The Department for Work and Pensions have released a report detailing life expectancy in 2011 and comparing the generations at 20, 50 and 80 years old. The data sees 20-year-olds three times more likely to reach 100 than their grandparents, and twice as likely as their parents .  While a girl born in 2011 has a one-in-three chance of living to their 100th birthday, a boy has a one-in-four chance. However, compared to a baby born in 1931, the children of 2011 are almost eight times more likely to become centenarians.  The predictions by the Office for National Statistics estimate the likelihood of reaching 100 by looking either at your age now or the year of your birth. They show that by 2066, there will be more than half a million people in the UK aged 100 or over.  The phenomenon of Britain's ageing  population will impact on everything from pensions to the national health service. Pensions Minister Steve Webb says:   the dramatic speed at which life expectancy is changing means that we need to radically rethink our perceptions about our later lives … We simply can't look to our grandparents' experience of retirement as a model for our own. We will live longer and we will have to save more    Roll over line for numbers    So, what does it mean? Key figures from the data, show:   • The average chance of a 20-year-old to reach 100 is 23%; however women aged 20 have a 26.6% chance - heavily contrasting with the male 19.5% • Those aged 50 in 2011 have a 14.2% chance of seeing the year 2061 (17% of women, 11.4% of men) • A further ten years reduces your chances by 2.2%, and by the time they reach 70 the average Briton will be at 10.4% • Those aged 83-84 now have lowest likelihood of reaching 100 of any age group - 7.2%. Beyond this percentages begin to look up, with a 99-year-old having a 67.% chance of making it through to their 100th birthday   We've extracted the data from the DWP for you to play with. What can you do with it?  Data summary     Likelihood of reaching 100  Click heading to sort table. Download this - and more - data      Year of birth    Male, %    Female, %    BOTH SEXES, %          SOURCE: DWP         1912  0.3  1.1  0.7    1913  0.3  1.1  0.7    1914  0.3  1.2  0.7    1915  0.3  1.2  0.8    1916  0.4  1.3  0.8    1917  0.4  1.4  0.9    1918  0.5  1.6  1.1    1919  0.7  1.9  1.3    1920  0.6  1.8  1.2    1921  0.7  2.1  1.4    1922  0.8  2.3  1.6    1923  1  2.5  1.7    1924  1.1  2.7  1.9    1925  1.2  3  2.1    1926  1.4  3.2  2.3    1927  1.6  3.5  2.5    1928  1.7  3.8  2.8    1929  2  4.2  3.1    1930  2.3  4.6  3.4    1931  2.5  5.1  3.8    1932  2.9  5.6  4.2    1933  3.2  6.2  4.7    1934  3.6  6.8  5.2    1935  4  7.3  5.6    1936  4.3  7.9  6.1    1937  4.6  8.4  6.5    1938  5  8.9  6.9    1939  5.2  9.3  7.2    1940  5.4  9.6  7.5    1941  5.7  9.9  7.8    1942  6  10.3  8.1    1943  6.2  10.6  8.4    1944  6.4  10.9  8.6    1945  6.6  11.1  8.9    1946  6.9  11.5  9.2    1947  7.1  11.8  9.5    1948  7.4  12.2  9.8    1949  7.7  12.5  10.1    1950  7.9  12.8  10.4    1951  8.2  13.1  10.6    1952  8.4  13.5  10.9    1953  8.6  13.7  11.2    1954  8.8  14  11.4    1955  9.1  14.4  11.7    1956  9.3  14.7  12    1957  9.5  14.9  12.2    1958  9.8  15.2  12.5    1959  10  15.6  12.8    1960  10.2  15.9  13.1    1961  10.5  16.2  13.3    1962  10.7  16.5  13.6    1963  11  16.8  13.9    1964  11.2  17.1  14.2    1965  11.5  17.4  14.5    1966  11.8  17.7  14.7    1967  12  18.1  15    1968  12.3  18.4  15.3    1969  12.5  18.7  15.6    1970  12.8  19  15.9    1971  13.1  19.4  16.2    1972  13.3  19.7  16.5    1973  13.6  20  16.8    1974  13.9  20.4  17.1    1975  14.2  20.7  17.4    1976  14.5  21.1  17.8    1977  14.8  21.4  18.1    1978  15.1  21.7  18.4    1979  15.4  22.1  18.7    1980  15.7  22.4  19.1    1981  16  22.8  19.4    1982  16.3  23.1  19.7    1983  16.6  23.5  20.1    1984  17  23.8  20.4    1985  17.3  24.2  20.7    1986  17.6  24.5  21.1    1987  17.9  24.9  21.4    1988  18.2  25.3  21.7    1989  18.5  25.6  22.1    1990  18.9  26  22.4    1991  19.2  26.4  22.8    1992  19.5  26.7  23.1    1993  19.9  27.1  23.5    1994  20.2  27.5  23.8    1995  20.5  27.8  24.2    1996  20.9  28.2  24.5    1997  21.2  28.5  24.9    1998  21.5  28.9  25.2    1999  21.9  29.3  25.6    2000  22.2  29.6  25.9    2001  22.6  30  26.3    2002  22.9  30.4  26.6    2003  23.2  30.7  27    2004  23.6  31.1  27.3    2005  23.9  31.5  27.7    2006  24.3  31.8  28.1    2007  24.6  32.2  28.4    2008  25  32.6  28.8    2009  25.3  32.9  29.1    2010  25.7  33.3  29.5    2011  26  33.7  29.9         Download the data   • DATA: download the full spreadsheet  More open data  Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian  World government data  • Search the world's government data with our gateway  Development and aid data  • Search the world's global development data with our gateway  Can you do something with this data?  • Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group • Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk  • Get the A-Z of data • More at the Datastore directory • Follow us on Twitter • Like us on Facebook       Next    Previous    Blog home                   We have switched off comments on this old version of the site. To comment on crosswords, please switch over to the new version to comment . Read more...         License/buy our content  |  Privacy policy  |  Terms & conditions  |  Advertising guide  |  Accessibility  |  A-Z index  |  Inside the Guardian blog  |  About us  |  Work for us  |  Join our dating site today     © 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.                                       Tech      Finance      Politics      Strategy      Life      All          BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition              A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.     Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                       BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE               Tech    Enterprise  Science  Advertising  Media  Transportation        Finance    Markets  Retail  Your Money  Markets Insider        Politics    Military & Defense  News        Strategy    Careers        Life    Entertainment  Travel  Sports        All           BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition   US  UK  DE  AUS  FR  IN  IT  JP  MY  NL  SE  PL  SG  ZA  ES            Follow us on:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net                       Finance        This Is When You're Going To Die                Andy Kiersz         Mar. 21, 2014, 12:57 PM    110,641          facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link     Everyone will die someday, and it is only a question of when. Through the power of actuarial estimates, it is possible to figure out approximately how long you are likely to live. We made a set of charts, based on data from the Social Security Administration's cohort life tables , that show, given your gender and current age, the probability that you will reach some particular later age. Naturally, these are based on averages for a particular age group — health conditions and lifestyle choices like diet, exercise, and smoking can vastly alter one's life expectancy. Regardless, this is important information for anyone who has to think about things like retirement and estate planning. Here are the charts, in descending order by present age: If you are an 80 year old man, your long-term odds are not great. There is a 30% chance of making it to your 90th birthday, and only about 14 in 1,000 will see 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration 70 year olds have a somewhat better prognosis. Almost 2/3 of 70 year old men and almost 3/4 of 70 year old women will live at least another ten years, and over 1/5 of men will make it to 90, as will 1/3 of women. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For 60 year olds, we see some of the benefits of modern medicine kicking in. The overwhelming majority of 60 year olds will live until at least 70, and majorities will get to at least 80. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Similarly, very few people who make it to 50 die before they turn 60. As we look at younger and younger cohorts, we see better and better long-term odds as well. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For people turning 40, comfortable majorities will see 80, and one in twenty women who are currently 40 will be able to blow out 100 birthday candles someday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Dying in your thirties is an extremely old-fashioned idea. Only 1.5% of thirty year old men, and just 0.9% of thirty year old women will die before their fortieth birthday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration The late 21st century will have more than its fair share of elderly millenials. 60% of twenty year old men and 70% of twenty year old women will live to see the year 2074. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration One interesting aspect of this data is that the Social Security administration projects that the gap in longevity between men and women will continue into the future. Even among today's ten year olds, girls are likely to outlive boys. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Finally, children born today will live longer than any other generation. About 2/3 will live past 80, and 1/3 past 90. Almost one in ten girls born now will live past 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration      SEE ALSO:  Thousands Of Med Students Are About To Have Their Fates Determined By An Algorithm       More:  Death  Social Security  Charts      facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link           Recommended For You   Powered By Sailthru              Powered By Sailthru               Recommended For You                   Featured         It's time for better capitalism  More "Better Capitalism" »         Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it  More "Better Capitalism" »           Business Insider Intelligence Exclusive Free Report        Get The Slide Deck From Henry Blodget's Ignition Presentation On The Future Of Media                               Follow us on:                  Also check out:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net        Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                   You have JavaScript turned off! Javascript is required for the best experience on this site.     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                   Papers     Papers  THP collaborates with leading experts to produce evidence-based policy proposals that foster prosperity through broad-based, sustainable economic growth.    Papers by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Papers by Type   Economic Analyses  Economic Facts  Policy Proposals  Strategy & Framing Papers  Policy Books        Events     Events  THP forums bring together key policy makers, academic experts, and business leaders to discuss ways to address our nation’s most pressing economic challenges.    Upcoming & Recent       Event  Apr 25, 2018  Beyond Reading and Math: How to Accelerate Success for Students         Event  Feb 28, 2018  How to Get American Workers a Raise: Policies to Revitalize Wage Growth         Event  Dec 13, 2017  Advancing U.S. Innovation by Reforming Patent and R&D Policy           Charts     Charts  THP charts, maps, and tables highlight economic policy challenges through dynamic interactive features.    Charts by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Charts by Type   Charts  Interactives        Topics     Topics  THP proposals and research introduce innovative, evidence-based economic policy options into the national discourse.    All Topics     Economic Security & Poverty    Education    Effective Government      Employment & Wages    Energy & Environment    Health Care      Infrastructure    Tax Policy & Budget    Technology & Innovation            About THP  Authors  Commentary  Multimedia  News Center    xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                                Search the Site          Chart  Probability of a 65-Year-Old Living to a Given Age, by Sex and Year   Health Care     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                         Jun 23, 2015      More than three out of five 65-year-olds today will reach age 80.    Rising life expectancy and potentially exorbitant long-term care costs have increased the financial resources required to support oneself and one’s spouse in retirement and old age.  Americans today are living longer than did previous generations, thanks to advances in medicine and changes in lifestyle. As shown in the dark green bars, 50 years ago a man who had reached 65 had an 81 percent chance of reaching 70, a 41 percent chance of hitting 80, and a 10 percent chance of turning 90. By comparison, the chances of reaching those same ages for a man who reaches 65 in 2015 are (as shown in the light green bars) 90 percent, 62 percent, and 22 percent, respectively. Put differently, the likelihood of a 65-year-old man seeing his 80th birthday has increased by 50 percent, and the likelihood of him seeing his 90th birthday has more than doubled. Women live longer than men on average, and they have experienced smaller but still substantial gains in life expectancy over the past 50 years.      Related Papers      Economic Facts  Ten Economic Facts about Financial Well-Being in Retirement        Learn More      Event  Promoting Financial Well-Being in Retirement             Similar Charts       Chart  Jun 19, 2014  Percent of Births to Unmarried Mothers by Education, 1970-2012    Since about 1980, the growth of single-parent families has been driven almost entirely by an increase in childbearing outside of marriage, often the result of people sliding into relationships and having an unplanned baby.        Chart  Nov 21, 2013  Child Food Insecurity and Obesity Rates in 2011, by State    In a new chart, The Hamilton Project shows the child food insecurity rates in every state in 2011.        Chart  Aug 5, 2011  Deaths from Major Infectious Disease    Technological and medical innovations have drastically reduced the mortality rate and increased life expectancy in the United States        Chart  Jun 23, 2015  Half of Americans Turning 65 in 2015 Face Out-of-Pocket Expenditures on Long-term Care    Half of all Americans turning 65 in 2015 will eventually face out-of-pocket expenditures on long-term services and supports (LTSS)—services provided in nursing homes, adult day-care centers, or in people’s homes that support those who have difficulty with routine daily activities such as bathing or dressing.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  Average Medicare Reimbursements per Enrollee    This chart shows Medicare spending for the average enrollee in the program after adjusting for prices and demographics for each hospital referral region—areas where people tend to receive medical care from similar providers.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  U.S. Health-Care and Out-of-Pocket Expenditures    For much of the past five decades, growth in spending on health care has been faster than economic growth in the economy as a whole. As shown in this chart, healthcare expenditures in 2014 accounted for an estimated 18 percent of GDP—a marked increase from 6 percent of GDP in 1965.       View All          Your email…   Sign Up      xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                        All content © 2018 The Hamilton Project . Terms and Conditions .                                 October 2012           ODDS OF LIVING TO RETIREMENT AT AGE 65       Of 1,000 Men...    Of 1,000 Men at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  161  84%    35  155  84%    40  148  85%    45  138  86%    50  123  88%    55  100  90%    60  62  94%    Of 1,000 Women...    Of 1,000 Women at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  126  87%    35  121  88%    40  116  88%    45  109  89%    50  97  90%    55  78  92%    60  47  95%    Inadequate retirement savings can keep you from realizing your retirement dreams! Are you making effective use of your business to achieve your retirement planning goals?       MESSAGES from the Masters...      THREE KEYS TO GREATNESS  by Jim Rohn  Several
years ago I went into the studio and recorded a 56-minute video for
teenagers called "Three Keys To Greatness." Although my focus was for
teenagers, the principles I shared certainly apply to adults as well.  Recently I was asked to list these three things using one to two sentences for each.  Now for your benefit here they are again.  1) Setting Goals. I call it the view of the future. Most people, including kids, will pay
the price if they can see the promise of the future. So we need to help
our kids see a well-defined future, so they will be motivated to pay
the price today to attain the rewards of tomorrow. Goals help them do
this.  2) Personal Development. Simply making consistent investments in our self-education and
knowledge banks pays major dividends throughout our lives. I suggest
having a minimum amount of time set aside for reading books, listening
to audiocassettes, attending seminars, keeping a journal and spending
time with other successful people. Charlie Tremendous Jones says you
will be in five years the sum total of the books you read and the
people you are around.  3) Financial Planning. I call it the 70/30 plan. After receiving your paycheck or paying
yourself, simply setting aside 10% for saving, 10% for investing and
10% for giving, and over time this will guarantee financial
independence for a teenager.  If
a young person, or for that matter an adult, focused on doing these
three simple things over a long period of time I believe they will be
assured success!  To Your Success, Jim Rohn          Brought to you by:     Jeffrey N. Schweitzer, EPA, CEP, ATP   Northeast Financial Strategies Inc  667 South Street  Wrentham, MA  02093  800-560-4637    jeff@nfsnet.com    http://www.nfsnet.com About our firm: Offering Financial & Estate Planning, Investments, Insurance, Accounting, Payroll, and  Income Tax Preparation for Individuals & Small Business.    "Financial Strategies That Fit YOUR Needs!"     QUOTES from the Masters...       On Expectation       "Look for the good in every person and every situation.  You'll almost always find it."  -- Brian Tracy  "Life...It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations."  -- Richard M. DeVos  "Don't join an easy crowd; you won't grow. Go where the expectations and the demands to perform are high."  -- Jim Rohn       On Entrepreneurism       "Entrepreneurial leadership requires the ability to move quickly when opportunity presents itself."  -- Brian Tracy  "Kids ought to have two bicycles, one to ride and one to rent."  -- Jim Rohn  "The future will be owned and operated by the entrepreneurially minded."  -- Mark Victor Hansen        The
purpose of this newsletter is to provide information of general
interest to our clients, potential clients and other professionals. The
information provided is general in nature and should not be considered
complete information on any product or concept described.  For more complete information, please contact my office at the phone number above.  Published by The Virtual Assistant; © 2012 VSA, LP    We
don't want to add to your e-mail clutter! If you do not enjoy my
newsletter, just reply to this e-mail and ask to be removed or call my
office.  Thanks!                             Toggle navigation            Find senior living:    (800) 973-1540               Sign in      Assisted Living   What is Assisted Living?  Find Assisted Living  How to Choose an Assisted Living Facility  Paying for Assisted Living  More Assisted Living Resources     Home Care   Find Non-Medical Home Care  Find Home Health Agencies  Find Hospices     Caregiving Resources   Avoid Caregiver Burnout  Senior Health Conditions  Paying for Senior Care  Elderlaw & Legal Planning  Support Groups  See All Resources     Dementia & Alzheimer’s   Find Memory Care  See Articles & Resources     More Senior Living Options   Independent Living  Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Nursing Homes  Adult Day Care            Assisted Living   What is Assisted Living?  Find Assisted Living  How to Choose an Assisted Living Facility  Paying for Assisted Living  More Assisted Living Resources     Home Care   Find Non-Medical Home Care  Find Home Health Agencies  Find Hospices     Caregiving Resources   Avoid Caregiver Burnout  Senior Health Conditions  Paying for Senior Care  Elderlaw & Legal Planning  Support Groups  See All Resources     Dementia & Alzheimer’s   Find Memory Care  See Articles & Resources     More Senior Living Options   Independent Living  Continuing Care Retirement Communities  Nursing Homes  Adult Day Care                Advertisement           Page Sponsored By            Caring Home Caregiving Resources Senior Health Conditions 10 Surprising Clues You'll Live to 100         10 Surprising Clues You'll Live to 100  By Paula Spencer Scott , Senior Health Writer | Last updated: Mar 15, 2018                                   All Rights Reserved    About one in 10,000 people seems to be a "slow ager" who lives to 100 -- sometimes even in spite of bad health habits, like smoking or exercising little, according to new research. Will you be among them? You won't know if you're among the genetically predisposed for sure, of course, until those 100 birthday candles are lit. But researchers are discovering more and more clues as to who's on his or her way.  Clue #1: How many elderly relatives are on your family tree?  What it may mean: You may have longevity genes.  At least half of all those who reach 100 have a parent, sibling, or grandparent who has also achieved very old age (90-plus), according to the New England Centenarian Study at the Boston University School of Medicine, which studies 100-plussers to unlock secrets of successful aging.    Advertisement              A 2002 study by the center's director, geriatrician Thomas Perls, found that male siblings of centenarians have a 17 times greater chance of reaching their 100th birthday than other men born around the same time; female siblings are 8.5 times more likely to hit 100 than other females also born around the same time.  Other studies have found that exceptional aging is often clustered among multiple first-tier family members, supporting a genetic link. Having siblings, parents, and grandparents who make it to 100 seems to be a much stronger indicator than counting cousins and other more distant relatives.  Clue #2: How fast and how far can you walk?  What it may mean: You're in good condition for the long haul.  Faster walkers live longer. University of Pittsburgh researchers crunched numbers from nine different studies including almost 35,000 subjects ages 65 or older. The result: For each gait speed increase of 0.1 meters per second came a corresponding 12 percent decrease in the risk of death.    Advertisement         The average speed was 3 feet per second (about two miles an hour). Those who walked slower than 2 feet per second (1.36 miles per hour) had an increased risk of dying. Those who walked faster than 3.3 feet per second (2.25 miles per hour) or faster survived longer than would be predicted simply by age or gender.  A 2006 report in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that among adults ages 70 to 79, those who couldn't walk a quarter mile were less likely to be alive six years later. They were also more likely to suffer illness and disability before death. An earlier study of men ages 71 to 93 found that those who could walk two miles a day had half the risk of heart attack of those who could walk only a quarter mile or less.  Clue #3: Do you have a lot of people in your life?  What it may mean: Social engagement is a key lifespan-extender.  Countless studies have found that social isolation is bad for your health, while having friends and social engagement is good. One of the more surprising findings in The Longevity Project (a book about an eight-decade study of 1,500 subjects all born around 1910) is that religious women lived longer -- primarily, as it turned out, because of the social connectedness of their faith-based lifestyle. That is, they worshipped with others, joined committees, and engaged in social outreach, from clothing drives to soup kitchens.  "There was a clear, similar trend among people who had civic engagements, were active in their communities, volunteered, and otherwise stayed connected, whether with families, friends, or coworkers," says Leslie R. Martin, a professor of psychology at La Sierra University in Riverside, California, who's the coauthor of The Longevity Project .  More clues that you could live to 100  Clue #4: Are you a woman?  What it may mean: Odds are more in your favor from the start.  Sorry, fellas. In 2010, there were 80,000 centenarians in the U.S.; 85 percent of them were women, and only 15 percent were men.  It's not entirely clear what's causing the disparity. Theories include the protective role of female sex hormones and menstruation, lower rates of cardiovascular disease for women, and higher smoking rates among men. Men also have higher rates of car accidents and suicide.  The survival gap is gradually narrowing, however, possibly because women are living lives that are conventionally male in terms of stress and poorer health habits, especially smoking.  One bit of good news for men: Those who do reach the century mark are, on average, healthier and more functionally fit than their female counterparts. Women survive medical catastrophes better than men but with more disability.  Clue #5 (for women only): Did you have a child after age 35?  What it may mean: This is possible evidence that you're a slow ager.  Popular wisdom holds that late-life babies are tougher on a mother's aging body. If so, that graying hair mixed with newborn pink or blue reflects a silver lining: According to the New England Centenarian Study, a woman who naturally conceives and bears a child after the age of 40 has a four times greater chance of living to 100 than women who don't. Moms who give birth naturally at 35-plus also make it to 100 in larger numbers than younger counterparts.  It's not the act of bearing a child late in life that extends lifespan, however. Researchers instead believe that being able to conceive and give birth in your late 30s or 40s is probably an indicator that your reproductive system is aging slowly -- and that therefore the rest of your body is likely to be aging slowly, as well.  Clue #6: When were you born?  What it may mean: Growing lifespans give younger people an edge.  A 2011 report by the British Department for Work and Pensions estimated life expectancy for citizens at various ages, providing a snapshot that Yanks can learn from, too.  A British girl born this year has a one in three chance of living to 100; a 2011-born boy has a one in four chance. If you're a 20-year-old woman, you have a 26.6 percent chance; a 20-year-old man has a 19.5 percent chance.  The average 50-year-old woman in the U.K. has a 14.6 percent chance of seeing 2061, the year of her diamond-anniversary birthday; just over one in 10 of her male counterparts will still be around then.  And if you're 99 now? You have a whopping 67 percent chance of seeing another year.  Clue #7: Do you worry -- but not too much?  What it may mean: There's a "healthy" worry level.  It sounds like a punch line: "Be afraid, be very afraid -- but not too much!" So-called "catastrophizers" -- Eeyore-like personalities who fret about impending doom, see the glass as half-empty, and are harshly self-critical -- tend to die sooner, according to psychology professor Leslie R. Martin of La Sierra University.  On the other hand, a moderate amount of anxiety and worry is associated with a 50-percent decreased risk of death in any given year, she says. Moderate worriers tend to be less impulsive, take fewer risks, have less risky hobbies, and plan for alternatives, which may all be protective without adding a negative health impact.  More clues that you could live to 100  Clue #8: Is your weight normal -- or are you only slightly overweight?  What it may mean: You have better odds of reaching 100 than if you were obese.  A surprising 2011 Albert Einstein College of Medicine study of 477 adults ages 95 to 112 found that these solid-gold agers had no better health habits overall than a comparison group born at the same time that had been studied in the 1970s. One difference: Those in long-lived group were much less likely to be obese.  Both male and female centenarians in the study were overweight at about the same rates as those in the shorter-lived group. But only 4.5 percent of the long-lived men and 9.6 of the women were obese, compared to 12.1 percent and 16.2 percent, respectively, of the younger-lived controls. ("Normal weight" is a Body Mass Index -- or BMI, a measure of height in proportion to weight -- in the range of 18 to 24; "overweight" is 25 to 30; over 30 is "obese.")  This finding echoes other studies showing the greatest risks of death among those who are obese or underweight at age 65 (BMI under 18.5), compared to those of normal weight or slight overweight. A 2011 study at Loma Linda University in Southern California found that men over age 75 with a BMI over 27.4 lived nearly four years less than those with a lower BMI. For women over age 75, a BMI over 27.4 led to a two-year shorter lifespan. Studies of centenarians show that men who reach 100 are almost always lean (more so than women).  Luckily, this clue is one you can control. "Since you can't be sure if you'll live to 100, I wouldn't take the chance of ignoring the lifestyle interventions that we know will at least put you in the half the population who die after age 80 -- starting with watching weight and being sure to exercise," says the senior author of the Albert Einstein study, Nir Barzilai, director of the college's Institute for Aging Research.  Clue # 9: How long are your telomeres?  What it may mean: Many people who live to 100 have a hyperactive version of an enzyme that rebuilds telomeres.  "What-o-meres?" you ask. Telomeres are protective DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes that gradually shorten as cells divide. (Pioneering telomere researcher Elizabeth Blackburn of the University of California-San Francisco compares them to shoelace caps.) Eventually the telomeres become so short that cells stop dividing, a condition called senescence, creating the effects we recognize as aging in related tissue.  Scientists are still unraveling the key role telomeres seem to play in aging, cancer, and other biological processes, but this much is clear: The longer your telomeres, the more time you're apt to have left. A 2010 Italian study reported that cancer-free people with shorter telomeres were more likely to develop cancer within ten years than those with longer telomeres, for example.  Some studies show that removing chronic stress, not smoking, and eating a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids can improve telomere length. Those centenarians with hyperactive telomere-making apparatus can probably thank their genes, though.  New blood tests are now being marketed directly to consumers, purporting to predict longevity based on telomere length. But critics caution that there aren't standards for measuring telomere length and that there can be such variability in telomeres that it's hard to predict much of anything from a sample.  Clue #10: Are you a positive person?  What it may mean: Emotion influences health, which influences aging.  Some studies have shown that an upbeat attitude about aging adds years. But long-term studies conducted at the Stanford Longevity Center show that emotions, more than attitudes, may be the biologic mechanism at work, says Laura Carstensen, the center's director.  "What's the mechanism at work here? Feeling upbeat about your life means you experience less stress, which in turn affects cortisol levels, which can affect health," she says. Stanford researchers periodically assess 19 different emotions in subjects randomly polled over 1 week at 5-year intervals. Having more positive emotions than negative ones is associated with living longer.  Carstensen is a firm believer that while "slow agers" clearly exist, there's more to their stories than lucky genes. "There's mounting evidence that genes play a role in longevity, but genes play a role in almost everything," she says. "They don't express themselves in vacuums -- there are very complex interactions between genes and lifestyle." So all that advice on how to live to 100 ? Can't hurt to heed it.      Paula Spencer Scott  Paula Spencer Scott is the author of Surviving Alzheimer's: Practical Tips and Soul-Saving Wisdom for Caregivers and much of the Alzheimer's and caregiving content on Caring. See full bio      Home Care Costs Near You   Compare pictures, pricing, options.    Get Information           ×   Home Care Costs Near You     Reference (optional)               Who needs care?  -- Choose One --  Parent(s)  Relative(s)  Friend(s)  Myself  Spouse  Patient/Client  Job  Other  Where are you looking for care?   Your e-mail address   Let's get started   1  2        Paying with Medicaid only    By submitting this form, you agree to Caring.com's Privacy Policy , Terms of Use and Agreement to be Contacted by Telephone .   1  2                                      READ THESE NEXT:  How to Live to 100   5 Secrets to Aging Well         5 months,  goldenrod  said...     Do old people with more muscle than other people their age live longer?         about 3 years,  Ric's wife  said...     We live, I am sad to say, in a society where things often get 'thrown away'..even older people..long before the time is due. I see elderly neighbors, and it is obvious to me that NO ONE is looking in on them, stopping by, calling..they are neglected. Period. On the other hand...I discovered as my friend Joe started to really decline that the law states, "an elderly person has the right to refuse help - even if that refusal hastens his or her demise." (!!) A perfectly idiotic law. And Alz is making that a game changer. Because, your 'independent family member/neighbor' might be leaving a pot on the stove and causing a fire, thus the local Engine company must come and douse it..is endangering the entire building. And a good neighbor of ours was removed to a nursing home after the third fire, by order of the management Board. Truly, as I observe my elderly colleagues and family members I know each is unique, and although the factors in play for every person are different, some have one person in the family circle shouldering everything. Some have a circle of involved people. But support groups are there, and a friend found a church group that began to help out, along with referrals to home aides and eventually, assisted care. It is truly exhausting and depressing to come home after a day of paying bills, cleaning up, and going head to head with someone who outright balks at your kind help. And often by the time the person needs it, it is too late for them to even understand and reflect that they DO. Take care of yourself as you struggle and deal with a situation like this. Reach out for help. And while we're about it... put your dimwit, selfish family members on notice, those who 'keep meaning to go and see Aunt Hepzibah/Dad/Grandmom', to get off their butts and help!. I see inequities like this every day; and am not the least bit shy about speaking up. The squeaky wheel gets the grease, and no way should one person carry the load for all, especially when caring for an elderly loved one with serious dementia, and related medical challenges. The unintended consequence of living longer can sometimes be dementia. Not all people remain active, engaged and clearheaded, dear Lord - would that it could be so. Bless the folks who are fortunate enough to mountain climb, and do it all..right up to the very end.. And bless those who are not so lucky, and lastly, those steadfast folks who must care for them!         about 3 years,  popsie  said...     Great article.  I would also add volunteering - doing something for others         about 3 years,  LadyLew  said...     Well, I've got a mixed bag of factors; this indicates, I suppose, that I probably won't make it to 100, but I'll at least make it to my next birthday (Feb 19) at which time I'll be entering my 74th year.         about 3 years, a fellow commenter  said...     my Nan was a solitary person and lived to 97 years of age, my mum walked fast everyday, had loads of friends was out every weekend and died at 57. So you can't tell by what your family has been through it is the individual that counts.         about 3 years,  A Who  said...     If this article is correct, I think I'm good for 100 plus!         over 3 years,  JoeE71  said...     Great article that gets you thinking.  I put a link to it on my blog, FotoDialer.blogspot.com.         over 3 years, a fellow commenter  said...     I loved it!  It told me I'm good for the long haul!         about 4 years,  CA-Claire  said...     Well, I wonder how old I will end up being?  My Mother passed away a few months after she turned 90 years old (her parents both died in their late 60s), and Dad is 92 now and starting to fail - his parents passed away at 90.  One of my siblings has heart problems (2nd heart surgery at 55).  One has survived a very rare cancer (Thymoma), and the other I don't know much about his health.

I'll change what I can, but like some of the other posters, I only want to live as long as I am useful.  Once I'm a power drain, let me go!         over 4 years,  hurting heart  said...     Helpful, somewhat, but how can you be a positive person when there is so much negative around you when you are caregiving a person with dementia?         over 4 years,  Danny Kowkabany  said...     Great article, 

Thank you,         almost 5 years, a fellow commenter  said...     I only want to live until my usefulness is gone....be it 75 or 100 . After that, let me go or give me something to do do even if it's shelling peas or licking stamps.  A doctor once said: "The secret to a long, HAPPY life is to get up every day with something to do." We cannot control things like dementia or disease, to a large degree, but have the kindness to find a caring place to take care care of your loved one so you can visit often but have a life of your own. There are many caring places, I have worked in one and know of others - just do your research and your part to oversee their care if you can't.  My mother-in-law lived to be 100 in her own home with round the clocks sitters like the Queen of England and was robbed of her valuables and self respect - all because her two sons could not do the right thing and put her in a nice place nearby.  I do not want to live to be 100 like this.  Who does?  Life is not meant to be extended by a number, but by dignity.  Once that is gone, you might as well be dead. No more articles about living to be 100!         almost 5 years,  YaYaBaby  said...     Your great...no complaints here. Keep up the good work & educating us!         almost 5 years,  sami_  said...     not thanks         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     Ric's wife is helping people who help to whatever extent they can when they are needed. Imagine every day that you woke up with a depressed person who would not do anything to help yourself and actively resisted living with you because she wanted to be in her own home. She doesn't help. She doesn't go anywhere, she doesn't like anything and she hates me. I have enough grief to carry with my daughter's pulmonary embolism at age 36, my son's terminal illness, my husband's kidney transplant that is rejecting and my father's death from prostate cancer and my mother's death from breast cancer. I do not have the emotional resilience to carry someone else's grief and sour puss every moment of the day. Nor will my mother-in-law consider going to counseling to pop her giant zit of misery. My simple message is this: I cannot continue to do it all for everyone. I am caving in myself. And the only way my mother-in-law has made it to 97 is because I have done all the care, cooking, cleaning, working to supplement our depleted savings, washing her clothes, changing her diapers and getting nothing in return but a kick when her son, my husband, is out of the room and then she tells me I hit her. His undivided loyalty needs to be with me. And I simply can't do this any more. My neighbors have moved out. My children live 20 hours away by car. There is NO backup. My husband WON'T pay for respite care. I cannot leave her on the floor if she falls at night. I don't know how to make it any clearer. Is she "living to 100?" Yes, she will. Will I? No, I won't. Again, one of the indicators of longevity is the support system that takes the stress so the elderly patient can survive.         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     To Caring Community and the authors who wrote this initial article:
When you wrote about the factors that enable people to reach 100, you forgot to include that most of that goes to being cared for by caregivers who lose out on their own longevity to provide care under stress. That's how I got into answering here instead of at resource articles. Your article needed some indication of ongoing support. Centenarians do not take care of themselves.         over 5 years,  Ric's wife  said...     Well, one thing is certainly true: age, and just plain living, brings us through may experiences. We all face challenges: poverty, illness, loneliness, the steady erosion of independence - I see this daily, when I visit my seniors. Each has a story to tell, and each has weathered some appalling personal crisis. The death of a loved partner, reduced financial circumstances, growing frailty. These are indeed realities of being elderly in our society. So, I don't know what to say about the 'bad part of getting older'.. pessimism about one's state, and future may in some cases be justified. But for my people, all of whom have multiple reasons to feel lousy the moment they get out of bed in the morning - they actually don't choose to DO that. They are involved in life, and I let them natter away at me, while I prepare coffee, mop, clean out their fridge, help them with the grocery list. And I suspect that that may be a clue to Mary (90) Joe (89) and my Mom, Lucille (90) still chugging along, and showing no signs of slowing down. I am, as some know, just a 'whippersnapper' of 64 myself, but when we had the fire at our building, these so called 'doddery' oldsters were calling up, taking time, comforting ME!! Their reassurance, wisdom and perspective (one senior neighbor of mine remembers the Holocaust) kept me from losing my mind. Do they sometimes feel angry, or put-upon? Sure enough. But they're still alive and, facing things head-on. Another clue? While I truly savor my moments of repose and calm, I am no fool to think they can last 24/7. I take my older friends 'vinegar in the greens' points of view as something that frequently comes in quite handy in the real world. And that 'tude may also prolong life.         over 5 years,  Caring Community  said...     Hello All, Thank you for your comments. The focus of this article is what clues can indicate living 100-plus years. If you would like to discuss your caregiving journey and connect with other caregivers on an ongoing basis, please visit our free online support groups at http://www.caring.com/support-groups. Also, for all comments you post anywhere on Caring.com, please abide our site terms of use, community code of conduct, and privacy policy: http://www.caring.com/about/terms One key guideline to keep in mind: Differences of opinion are welcome, as long as they're presented respectfully. Personal attacks are never allowed. If your comment doesn't fit within the site terms and guidelines, it will be removed. Please contact our team if you have any questions of concerns (use the blue Feedback tab, "contact us" link at the bottom of Caring.com pages, or email moderators AT Caring.com). Thank you.         over 5 years, a fellow commenter  said...     To all those hoping to live to be 100, be very, very careful what you wish for because it might come true and you might not like what it brings.         over 5 years,  Ric's wife  said...     For further hints I suggest reading LOST HORIZON, by James Hilton, and Conway's conversation with the High Lama, who is well past the age of 100. Moderation in all things, a philosophy of work balanced with spirituality. Not always possible in our high tech world, I grant you - but there are may leaves from the Lama's worldview that can work for us, and give us a very wise perspective on ways to navigate through life's troubles, and challenges. Of course in the case of Shangri La, these people live away from all the hurly burly, but I often open the book, and gain insights from the way they view and approach the stresses of life. And, of and by itself it's also a wonderful read, even though it was written in the 1930's just as the WW2 Axis wheels were cranking in gear. Hilton's book nevertheless contains timeless, heartwarming insights that touch... and can teach us all a thing or two!         over 5 years,  zambezi  said...     One last observation about my own comments. I was initially trying to warn caregivers to set up backup before they get stuck with all of the responsibilities, sharing with siblings or adult children or respite care. But I got into the abyss of venting because I am literally moving out in a week or so and nobody, especially an overburdened caregiver like you or anyone else, needs to hear bad news when they are seeking hope.       See remaining 51 comments              Advertisement               Top Cities for Assisted Living   Assisted Living in Tarzana, California  Assisted Living in Phoenix, Arizona  Assisted Living in Saint George, Utah  Assisted Living in Pasadena, California  Find Assisted Living Near You       Top Cities for In-Home Care   In-Home Care in Springfield, Virginia  In-Home Care in Falls Church, Virginia  In-Home Care in Leesburg, Virginia  In-Home Care in Herndon, Virginia  Find In-Home Care Near You       Top Cities for Memory Care   Memory Care in Hollywood, Florida  Memory Care in Jacksonville, Florida  Memory Care in Savannah, Georgia  Memory Care in Sarasota, Florida  Find Memory Care Near You        Stay Connected With Caring.com  Get news & tips via e-mail        Subscribe          Advertisement          Also from Caring.com         11 Signs It Might be Time for Assisted Living    8 Ways to Protect Against Eye Problems with Age    Creating a Daily Routine for a Loved One with Dementia: 3 Key Tips    Caring for Someone with a Traumatic Brain Injury: 11 Smart Tips    Counseling for Caregivers: Steps to Save Your Sanity    The Surprising Power of Pet Therapy for Dementia    Would You Want to Know Your Risk of Alzheimer's?    6 Nonverbal Dementia Communication Techniques to Make Caregiving Easier    How to Handle Power of Attorney for a Parent with Dementia    What You Should Know About Moving to a New Senior Care Facility    The Most and Least Affordable States for Your Aging Parents in 2018    The 10 Most Expensive States for Your Aging Parents in 2018    The 10 Cheapest States for Your Aging Parents in 2018                         General Info     About Caring  News Room  Claim Caring.com Listing  Advertising  How We Make Money       Quick Links     Assisted Living  Alzheimer's and Dementia Care  Home Care  Free Newsletters  Site Map       Site Help     Contact Caring.com  Unsubscribe              Join Us                   Caring.com is a leading online destination for caregivers seeking information and support as they care for aging parents, spouses, and other loved ones. We offer thousands of original articles, helpful tools, advice from more than 50 leading experts, a community of caregivers, and a comprehensive directory of caregiving services.      The material on this site is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for legal, financial, professional, or medical advice or diagnosis or treatment. By using our website, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . © Copyright 2007-2018 Caring, Inc. All Rights Reserved.    By using our website, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . © Copyright 2007-2018 Caring, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                            CBS News  CBS Evening News  CBS This Morning  48 Hours  60 Minutes  Sunday Morning  Face The Nation  CBSN Originals       GO     Log In      Log In    Join CBSNews.com          CBS Moneywatch  Markets  Money  Work  Small Business  Retirement  Tech  Trending  Video        Get                      By  Steve Vernon  MoneyWatch  July 24, 2013, 12:42 PM  Living too long is a risk!    A picture taken on July 22, 2013, shows an old women walking in a corridor of the Ehpad retirement home "Maison d'Aquitaine" in Merignac, southwestern France, during a visit of French Junior Minister for the Elderly.     AFP PHOTO / NICOLAS TUCAT        (Photo credit should read NICOLAS TUCAT/AFP/Getty Images)  AFP        Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email     (MoneyWatch) Many people say they want to live a long time, but they don't really understand the financial implications of that wish. If you don't make the necessary monetary preparations for a long life, you could end up penniless and have to rely on family or the government safety net for support.  How long will you live?  Estimate your life expectancy -- change your life Experts warn of retirement crisis So how long might you live? This post follows up my last post , which discussed a recent report from the American Academy of Actuaries that addressed longevity risk -- the risk of living beyond your life expectancy.  The report, " Risky Business: Living Longer Without Income for Life ," contains estimates from the Social Security Administration tables of life expectancies for individuals currently age 65. According to the report, a man age 65 can expect to live a further 18.9 years on average; a 65-year-old woman can expect to be alive an additional 20.9 years. These life expectancies have increased by about five years since 1935, when the Social Security program was implemented (longer lifespans are one cause of Social Security's current financing issues).  But these life expectancies are just averages. What are the odds of beating the averages?  The "Risky Business" report shows that a 65-year-old man has about one in five odds of living to age 90 -- about six years longer than his life expectancy. A 65-year-old woman has almost one in three odds of living to age 90 -- four years longer than her life expectancy. And a 65-year-old couple has a 45 percent chance -- almost 50-50 -- that one of them will survive to age 90.  The Social Security tables represent the population at large, including people who smoke or work in unhealthy environments. How do the odds improve if you take care of your health? The report calculates the odds if you experience mortality rates -- the odds of dying in a year -- that are 75 percent of those on the Social Security's tables. These lower mortality rates can apply to you if you have above average education, a regular job, don't smoke, keep your weight at healthy levels, eat nutritious food and/or get regular exercise. If you die at these reduced mortality rates, you'll live longer than the population at large.  In this case, the odds are almost one in three that a 65-year-old man will live to age 90 and about one in eight that he'll live until age 95 -- 11 years beyond his life expectancy. A 65-year-old woman has 42 percent odds of living to age 90, and 21 percent odds (more than one in five) of living to age 95 -- nine years beyond her life expectancy.  The odds are 31 percent -- almost one in three -- that one member of a 65-year-old couple will live to age 95. The odds are one in 10 -- 10 percent -- that one member of this couple will live to age 100.  But most people aren't financially prepared to live that long or deal with the uncertainty of their actual lifespan. Retirement planning would be easier if you knew exactly how long you'll live. So what can you do to protect yourself against the risk of living too long? Stay tuned for my next post.   © 2013 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.       Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email        Steve Vernon   On Twitter »   View all articles by Steve Vernon on CBS MoneyWatch»  Steve Vernon helped large employers design and manage their retirement programs for more than 35 years as a consulting actuary. Now he's a research scholar for the Stanford Center on Longevity, where he helps collect, direct and disseminate research that will improve the financial security of seniors. He's also president of Rest-of-Life Communications , delivers retirement planning workshops and authored Money for Life: Turn Your IRA and 401(k) Into a Lifetime Retirement Paycheck and Recession-Proof Your Retirement Years .             Featured in Moneywatch      20 of the coolest places to retire in the world  Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world       10 products you should never buy generic  Generics are a great way to save money in lots of cases, but here is a look at some clear exceptions       Popular        Market Data                              Latest Features       4 ways women earn less than men         How to check if your Facebook data was shared with Cambridge Analytica         Catt Sadler on her new calling after leaving E! News         Facebook giving rewards for reports of data abuse         "Trade war" portfolio: 4 stocks to watch       Market News            Moneywatch Spotlight       5 cars drawing crowds at the New York Auto Show         Trump announces new tariffs on China         3 states open investigations into Cambridge Analytica, Facebook         9 American cities with the worst income inequality   25  Views          Super Bowl 2018 commercials: The best and the worst       Stock Watchlist                New Fire TV App                               Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services . ICE Limitations . Powered and implemented by FactSet .  Legal Statement .     CBSNews.com  Site Map  Help  Contact Us  CBS Bios  Careers  CBSi Careers  Internships  Development Programs    CBS Interactive  Privacy Policy  Ad Choice  Terms of Use  Mobile User Agreement  About CBS  Advertise  Closed Captioning  CBS News Store    Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter  RSS  Email Newsletters  YouTube  CBS News Radio  CBS Local     CBS News    Search       Copyright © 2018 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.                                                  Jobs    Cars    Homes    Announcements    Advertise My Business     Newsletter       Register  Login    Edit Account  Sign Out                                          News      Politics    Transport    Education    Environment    Health    Regions    UK    Opinion    World    Obituaries      Regions    Inverness, Highlands & Islands    Aberdeen & North East    Dundee & Tayside    Glasgow & Strathclyde    Edinburgh, Fife & Lothians    Dumfries & Borders      News    Politics    Transport    Education    Environment    Health    UK    News Opinion    World    Odd    Celebrity    Friends of The Scotsman    Obituaries    Consumer      Sport    Football    Rugby Union    Tennis    Golf    Cricket    Athletics    Boxing    Horse Racing    Cycling    Motorsport    Snooker    Hockey      Business    Companies    Markets and Economy    Management      Lifestyle    Gadgets & Gaming    Culture    Travel    Health & Wellbeing    Family    Personal Finance    Homes    Outdoors    Cars      Read This      Heritage    People & Places    Historic Events    Clans    Myths & Legends    Castles    Traditions & Culture      We Know Scotland      Future Scotland    Tech    Innovators    Big Ideas      Giving Back    Charities    Business in Action    Heroes                            Will you live to see 90? Here's how to figure your chances        Published:  21:37    Updated:  22:44  Monday 11 February 2008       Share this article                                                                Sign Up To Our Daily Newsletter      Sign up           WANT to live into your 90s? Well, researchers have calculated exactly how you can improve your chances of reaching a ripe old age.  Eating a healthy diet, taking regular exercise and avoiding smoking are all key to living longer. But ignore this advice at your peril – failure to follow these health tips could mean your chances of ever seeing 90 candles on your birthday cake plummet to just 4 per cent.    Campaigners said the study, carried out in the United States, again highlighted the importance of leading a healthy lifestyle to avoid illnesses such as heart disease and stroke.    The new research, published in the journal Archives of Internal Medicine, focused on 2,357 men taking part in  a study.    A team from Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston gathered lifestyle information from the men at the start of the study in 1981. They were then followed up yearly until 2006 to find out about changes in their habits and health. A total of 970 men (41 per cent of the total) lived to 90 or over. The researchers calculated that a 70-year-old man who did not smoke, had normal blood pressure and weight, did not suffer from diabetes and exercised two to four times a week had the best chance of living to 90, at  54 per cent. But for every bad habit, the likelihood of passing 90 dropped.  Those with a sedentary lifestyle saw their chances fall to 44 per cent. High blood pressure reduced the chances of making it to 90 to 36 per cent, being obese to 26 per cent and smoking to  22 per cent. Having five risk factors, including taking little exercise, having diabetes and being obese, cut the chances of reaching 90 to only 4 per cent.       The research team, led by Dr Laurel Yates, said: "Smoking, diabetes, obesity and hypertension significantly reduced the likelihood of a 90-year lifespan, while regular vigorous exercise substantially improved it. "Furthermore, men with a lifespan of 90 or more years also had better physical function, mental well-being and a self- perceived health in late life, compared with men who died at a young age." The researchers said that the impact of lifestyle risk factors in older people remained controversial, but their study suggested they remained important, at least in men. A spokeswoman for the charity Chest, Heart and Stroke Scotland said: "This research shows the importance of following a healthy lifestyle.       "Giving up smoking, eating a healthy diet and exercising regularly can reduce your risk factors for heart disease and stroke and make a significant difference to your quality of life. "It's never too late to be more active. Improved general health and longer independence can be great motivation." Ellen Mason, a cardiac nurse at the British Heart Foundation, said: "This study suggests that if a man aged 70 meets all of the following criteria – smokes, is overweight, has high blood pressure, diabetes and lives a sedentary lifestyle – their chance of reaching 90 is virtually zero. Basically, they will have a reduction in both quality and quantity of life. "It just goes to show, it is never too late to give up smoking and be more active in order to get fit and lose weight."                                                                       Follow Us On                                Explore    News    Sport    Business    Lifestyle    Food and Drink    Heritage    We Know Scotland    Future Scotland      More from The Scotsman    Announcements    Buy a Photo    Directory    Digital Archive    Jobs    Homes    Cars    Calendars    Conferences    Dating    Local Guide    Public Notices    Supplements    Mobility Aids    Reader Shop    Must Read    Read This      Useful Links    Contact Us    Advertise My Business    Advertise a Job    Advertising    Place your Ad    Subscribe    Edinburgh Evening News    Readers Charter            © 2018 Johnston Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.    Terms and Conditions    Disclaimer    Cookies Policy                              Tech      Finance      Politics      Strategy      Life      All          BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition              A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.     Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                       BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE               Tech    Enterprise  Science  Advertising  Media  Transportation        Finance    Markets  Retail  Your Money  Markets Insider        Politics    Military & Defense  News        Strategy    Careers        Life    Entertainment  Travel  Sports        All           BI ACCOUNTS     BUSINESS INSIDER    BI PRIME  SIGN OUT    BI INTELLIGENCE           Edition   US  UK  DE  AUS  FR  IN  IT  JP  MY  NL  SE  PL  SG  ZA  ES            Follow us on:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net                       Finance        This Is When You're Going To Die                Andy Kiersz         Mar. 21, 2014, 12:57 PM    110,641          facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link     Everyone will die someday, and it is only a question of when. Through the power of actuarial estimates, it is possible to figure out approximately how long you are likely to live. We made a set of charts, based on data from the Social Security Administration's cohort life tables , that show, given your gender and current age, the probability that you will reach some particular later age. Naturally, these are based on averages for a particular age group — health conditions and lifestyle choices like diet, exercise, and smoking can vastly alter one's life expectancy. Regardless, this is important information for anyone who has to think about things like retirement and estate planning. Here are the charts, in descending order by present age: If you are an 80 year old man, your long-term odds are not great. There is a 30% chance of making it to your 90th birthday, and only about 14 in 1,000 will see 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration 70 year olds have a somewhat better prognosis. Almost 2/3 of 70 year old men and almost 3/4 of 70 year old women will live at least another ten years, and over 1/5 of men will make it to 90, as will 1/3 of women. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For 60 year olds, we see some of the benefits of modern medicine kicking in. The overwhelming majority of 60 year olds will live until at least 70, and majorities will get to at least 80. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Similarly, very few people who make it to 50 die before they turn 60. As we look at younger and younger cohorts, we see better and better long-term odds as well. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For people turning 40, comfortable majorities will see 80, and one in twenty women who are currently 40 will be able to blow out 100 birthday candles someday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Dying in your thirties is an extremely old-fashioned idea. Only 1.5% of thirty year old men, and just 0.9% of thirty year old women will die before their fortieth birthday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration The late 21st century will have more than its fair share of elderly millenials. 60% of twenty year old men and 70% of twenty year old women will live to see the year 2074. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration One interesting aspect of this data is that the Social Security administration projects that the gap in longevity between men and women will continue into the future. Even among today's ten year olds, girls are likely to outlive boys. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Finally, children born today will live longer than any other generation. About 2/3 will live past 80, and 1/3 past 90. Almost one in ten girls born now will live past 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration      SEE ALSO:  Thousands Of Med Students Are About To Have Their Fates Determined By An Algorithm       More:  Death  Social Security  Charts      facebook     linkedin     twitter     email     copy link           Recommended For You   Powered By Sailthru              Powered By Sailthru               Recommended For You                   Featured         It's time for better capitalism  More "Better Capitalism" »         Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it  More "Better Capitalism" »           Business Insider Intelligence Exclusive Free Report        Get The Slide Deck From Henry Blodget's Ignition Presentation On The Future Of Media                               Follow us on:                  Also check out:           * Copyright © 2018 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Service  and  Privacy Policy .     Sitemap    Disclaimer    Commerce Policy    Made in NYC   Stock quotes by finanzen.net        Edition   International Editions:    United States  US         United Kingdom  UK      Deutschland  DE      Australia  AUS      France  FR      India  IN      Italy  IT      Japan  JP      Malaysia  MY      Netherlands  NL      Nordic  SE      Poland  PL      Singapore  SG      South Africa  ZA      Spain  ES                   You have JavaScript turned off! Javascript is required for the best experience on this site.     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                   Papers     Papers  THP collaborates with leading experts to produce evidence-based policy proposals that foster prosperity through broad-based, sustainable economic growth.    Papers by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Papers by Type   Economic Analyses  Economic Facts  Policy Proposals  Strategy & Framing Papers  Policy Books        Events     Events  THP forums bring together key policy makers, academic experts, and business leaders to discuss ways to address our nation’s most pressing economic challenges.    Upcoming & Recent       Event  Apr 25, 2018  Beyond Reading and Math: How to Accelerate Success for Students         Event  Feb 28, 2018  How to Get American Workers a Raise: Policies to Revitalize Wage Growth         Event  Dec 13, 2017  Advancing U.S. Innovation by Reforming Patent and R&D Policy           Charts     Charts  THP charts, maps, and tables highlight economic policy challenges through dynamic interactive features.    Charts by Topic   Economic Security & Poverty Education Effective Government Employment & Wages Energy & Environment   Health Care Infrastructure Tax Policy & Budget Technology & Innovation     Charts by Type   Charts  Interactives        Topics     Topics  THP proposals and research introduce innovative, evidence-based economic policy options into the national discourse.    All Topics     Economic Security & Poverty    Education    Effective Government      Employment & Wages    Energy & Environment    Health Care      Infrastructure    Tax Policy & Budget    Technology & Innovation            About THP  Authors  Commentary  Multimedia  News Center    xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                                Search the Site          Chart  Probability of a 65-Year-Old Living to a Given Age, by Sex and Year   Health Care     xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                  xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                         Jun 23, 2015      More than three out of five 65-year-olds today will reach age 80.    Rising life expectancy and potentially exorbitant long-term care costs have increased the financial resources required to support oneself and one’s spouse in retirement and old age.  Americans today are living longer than did previous generations, thanks to advances in medicine and changes in lifestyle. As shown in the dark green bars, 50 years ago a man who had reached 65 had an 81 percent chance of reaching 70, a 41 percent chance of hitting 80, and a 10 percent chance of turning 90. By comparison, the chances of reaching those same ages for a man who reaches 65 in 2015 are (as shown in the light green bars) 90 percent, 62 percent, and 22 percent, respectively. Put differently, the likelihood of a 65-year-old man seeing his 80th birthday has increased by 50 percent, and the likelihood of him seeing his 90th birthday has more than doubled. Women live longer than men on average, and they have experienced smaller but still substantial gains in life expectancy over the past 50 years.      Related Papers      Economic Facts  Ten Economic Facts about Financial Well-Being in Retirement        Learn More      Event  Promoting Financial Well-Being in Retirement             Similar Charts       Chart  Jun 19, 2014  Percent of Births to Unmarried Mothers by Education, 1970-2012    Since about 1980, the growth of single-parent families has been driven almost entirely by an increase in childbearing outside of marriage, often the result of people sliding into relationships and having an unplanned baby.        Chart  Nov 21, 2013  Child Food Insecurity and Obesity Rates in 2011, by State    In a new chart, The Hamilton Project shows the child food insecurity rates in every state in 2011.        Chart  Aug 5, 2011  Deaths from Major Infectious Disease    Technological and medical innovations have drastically reduced the mortality rate and increased life expectancy in the United States        Chart  Jun 23, 2015  Half of Americans Turning 65 in 2015 Face Out-of-Pocket Expenditures on Long-term Care    Half of all Americans turning 65 in 2015 will eventually face out-of-pocket expenditures on long-term services and supports (LTSS)—services provided in nursing homes, adult day-care centers, or in people’s homes that support those who have difficulty with routine daily activities such as bathing or dressing.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  Average Medicare Reimbursements per Enrollee    This chart shows Medicare spending for the average enrollee in the program after adjusting for prices and demographics for each hospital referral region—areas where people tend to receive medical care from similar providers.        Chart  Oct 6, 2015  U.S. Health-Care and Out-of-Pocket Expenditures    For much of the past five decades, growth in spending on health care has been faster than economic growth in the economy as a whole. As shown in this chart, healthcare expenditures in 2014 accounted for an estimated 18 percent of GDP—a marked increase from 6 percent of GDP in 1965.       View All          Your email…   Sign Up      xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?           xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                          xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                        All content © 2018 The Hamilton Project . Terms and Conditions .                             CBS News  CBS Evening News  CBS This Morning  48 Hours  60 Minutes  Sunday Morning  Face The Nation  CBSN Originals       GO     Log In      Log In    Join CBSNews.com          CBS Moneywatch  Markets  Money  Work  Small Business  Retirement  Tech  Trending  Video        Get                      By  Steve Vernon  MoneyWatch  October 16, 2014, 5:30 AM  How much longer might you live? Think again          Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email     Consider this: A 65 year-old woman has a 50/50 chance of living another 20 years to age 85, according to an online calculator maintained by the Society of Actuaries (SOA). Similarly, a 65 year-old man has a 50/50 chance of living another 17 years to age 82. This information might cause you some confusion if you've read that the average life expectancy in the U.S. is currently 81 for women and 76 for men. But these are life expectancies from birth -- they don't apply to someone who's already reached age 65.     Play  Video   Health  New research shows U.S. falling behind in life expectancy  A new study being published in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows the United States rates behind other countries when it comes...   Life expectancies at birth calculate the average lifespan for everybody who was born in the same year, and they include people who die before 65. So, if you make it to 65, you're in a more select group of people who've been healthy enough -- or lucky enough -- to make it that far. Many people make this common mistake -- confusing life expectancies at birth with remaining life expectancies at your current age, such as 65. Here's one way to double-check this thinking.  Suppose you're a man who's made it to 80. Clearly, you should have some years of life remaining, but if you relied on life expectancies from birth, you should have been dead by now. Why is this important? This information is critical when it comes to retirement planning. If you're a woman planning how much savings you'll need for retirement, you'll need more money if you live to 85 compared to living to 81 -- an extra four years of necessary retirement income. The same logic applies to a man.     Play  Video   Home  Social Security: How to get the biggest check  When you choose to start taking Social Security impacts your monthly check in a big way. CBS News financial analyst Mellody Hobson shows that the...    And having an idea about how long you might live should influence your decision about when to start your Social Security benefits. So, the first mistake some people make when planning their retirement is underestimating how long they might live, which can lead them to underestimate the amount of money they'll need to last the rest of their lives. The second mistake would be planning to make your savings last just to your average life expectancy. Remember, your life expectancy isn't your destiny. It's just an estimate. You could die well before your average life expectancy -- or well after. For example, the SOA calculator shows that our 65-year-old woman has a 28 percent chance -- a little more than one out of four -- of living another 25 years to age 90. And she has a 32 percent chance -- almost one out of three -- that she'll live only another 15 years to 80. Similarly, our 65-year-old man has a 30 percent chance -- nearly one out of three -- of living another 22 years to 87. And he has a 24 percent chance -- almost one out of four -- of living only another 10 years to 75. This illustrates a significant retirement planning challenge: You don't know how long you'll live, and the range of possible outcomes is large. In these examples, the range of outcomes is 10 years or more around the average life expectancy, although the actual range is much wider when you consider more extreme possibilities such as living a very long time or dying right after after retirement. The actual range of how long you might need your money to last is also much wider if you consider how long one member of a married couple might live. Understanding this means you'll need to plan for the uncertainty about how long you -- and your spouse or partner, if applicable -- will live. You can use the SOA calculator to calculate your remaining life expectancy for various ages -- and the odds of dying before your life expectancy or living beyond it. This calculator also works for couples. This is an important step in retirement planning. As a result, you'll also want to learn as much as you can about the different methods you can use to generate a retirement paycheck that lasts as long as you do, no matter how long you live.   © 2014 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved.       Share       Tweet      Reddit      Flipboard       Email        Steve Vernon   On Twitter »   View all articles by Steve Vernon on CBS MoneyWatch»  Steve Vernon helped large employers design and manage their retirement programs for more than 35 years as a consulting actuary. Now he's a research scholar for the Stanford Center on Longevity, where he helps collect, direct and disseminate research that will improve the financial security of seniors. He's also president of Rest-of-Life Communications , delivers retirement planning workshops and authored Money for Life: Turn Your IRA and 401(k) Into a Lifetime Retirement Paycheck and Recession-Proof Your Retirement Years .             Featured in Moneywatch      20 of the coolest places to retire in the world  Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world       10 products you should never buy generic  Generics are a great way to save money in lots of cases, but here is a look at some clear exceptions       Popular        Market Data                              Latest Features       4 ways women earn less than men         How to check if your Facebook data was shared with Cambridge Analytica         Catt Sadler on her new calling after leaving E! News         Facebook giving rewards for reports of data abuse         "Trade war" portfolio: 4 stocks to watch       Market News            Moneywatch Spotlight       5 cars drawing crowds at the New York Auto Show         Trump announces new tariffs on China         3 states open investigations into Cambridge Analytica, Facebook         9 American cities with the worst income inequality   25  Views          Super Bowl 2018 commercials: The best and the worst       Stock Watchlist                New Fire TV App                               Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by ICE Data Services . ICE Limitations . Powered and implemented by FactSet .  Legal Statement .     CBSNews.com  Site Map  Help  Contact Us  CBS Bios  Careers  CBSi Careers  Internships  Development Programs    CBS Interactive  Privacy Policy  Ad Choice  Terms of Use  Mobile User Agreement  About CBS  Advertise  Closed Captioning  CBS News Store    Follow Us  Facebook  Twitter  RSS  Email Newsletters  YouTube  CBS News Radio  CBS Local     CBS News    Search       Copyright © 2018 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.            Warning: Vanguard.com will not work properly with JavaScript disabled!                                 Vanguard home Warning This page won't work properly unless JavaScript is enabled.                                                                     Saving for Retirement   Text size:   A  A  A       Plan for a long retirement       Comment E‑mail Share Print     Thanks to healthier lifestyles and breakthroughs in medical technology, life expectancy for Americans has increased significantly during the past half-century. While it's good news that you can expect to live longer in retirement and have a better quality of life, it also means your investment portfolio may need to last for 30 years or more.  For example, here's the likelihood of 65-year-olds living to certain ages, according to figures from the Society of Actuaries:   Male. A 65-year-old man has a 41% chance of living to age 85 and a 20% chance of living to age 90.  Female. A 65-year-old woman has a 53% chance of living to age 85 and a 32% chance of living to age 90.  Couple. If the man and woman are married, the chance that at least one of them will live to any given age is increased. There's a 72% chance that one of them will live to age 85 and a 45% chance that one will live to age 90. There's even an 18% chance that one of them will live to age 95, as shown below.   The following interactive example is designed to estimate the probability of living to a specific age.* You may enter your current age alone—or your and your spouse's current ages—and a number of years to see the chances of living that long.  Probability of living a selected number of years          %               20  15  10  5  0                                                                   6  13  18               Person 2  Person 1      Name          Current age  (Range 20-100)        Gender  Male Female  Male Female       Time frame (Range 20-100)    years      Number of people  1 2            NOTE:  * Calculations are based on mortality data from the Society of Actuaries Retirement Participant 2000 Table.     Print Comment | E‑mail | Share        Also of interest  GUIDES  Saving for retirement  Nearing retirement  Living in retirement  TOOLS  Other retirement planning tools  INVEST NOW  Open an account online  Set up automatic investments                        Your input was invalid                This page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Statistics (collected data)  Demographics  People What percentage of people live into their 90s? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Want to learn basic statistic concepts? Sign up for introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Classroom & online courses available. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 8 Answers   Kent Aldershof , worked at Manattan Auto Group Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 3.3k answers and 3.6m answer views According to US government statistics, about 24% of people live to age 90 or above, based on 2012 data published in 2016. Of course, that masks some considerable differences by sex and race; and surely, by some other characteristics not reported (such as urban vs. rural dwellers, education, level of medical care, occupational history, and so on). Just for example, in the total US population nearly 30% of females live into their 90s, but only slightly over 18% of males. Statistics differ widely from one nation to another. A related concern is the life expectancy of people who reach age 90. On average that is just over 4 years for males, and nearly 5 years for females. Such gross statistics have very little relevance regarding any individual, such as yourself. How long you will live is strongly affected by your genetic inheritance, and by your lifestyle. If you have parents and grandparents who lived long lives (other than accidental deaths), your outlook is improved. The more highly you are educated, the longer you are likely to live. People who are married, who have children, and who keep pets generally live longer. Women typically outlive men. Whites live longer than blacks. Hispanics live longer than whites. Japanese in Japan live longer than almost everyone else. They eat whale meat, which is illegal to harvest, and which is eaten almost nowhere else; is that causative? Your nourishment has a big influence on your lifespan. You need lots and lots of vitamins and minerals, proteins and grains, and a very low intake of fats, starches, sugars, and alcohol. Being a smoker shortens your life expectancy, typically by decades. Sedentary work, and especially sedentary leisure, will also reduce your life expectancy by decades. Hazardous work and hazardous recreational activities can bring one’s life to an abrupt and early end; or can cause illnesses or injuries which can be incapacitating and prematurely fatal. Ultimately, you have a very significant degree of control over your life expectancy. People who are optimistic, social, curious, outgoing, helpful, and involved with others live longer than those who are negative, dull, and reclusive. Those who want to live, with a sense of purpose, last longer than those who have given up or who just don’t care. People who take care of themselves, and who have regular medical checkups, definitely outlive those who don’t. Broad statistics, such as the fraction of people who live into their 90s, are essentially meaningless. You need to look into what are the statistics for much more finely divided sub-groups — and into why those statistics differ among the groups. 7.9k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Wharton Executive Education Learn business analytics online with Wharton Executive Education. Enroll in this three-month Business Analytics program and turn data into a revenue-producing action. Apply Now at execed-emeritus.wharton.upenn You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below What percentage of people live to the age of 80? What percentage of people live to be at least 25 without having children? What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people living in the year 1600 have descendents who are alive today? What percentage of people can speak Arabic? Ask New Question   A.O. Reid-Marr , I study global problem solving. Answered Mar 28, 2017 · Author has 94 answers and 117.3k answer views I am going to assume that you are looking for global averages, rather than data for specific demographics. Here’s a table based on UN data which can be found here: https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/Down... , the specific file is: Life table survivors (lx) at exact age x - Both Sexes (XLS, 3.45 MB) If we look at the far right column we can see the percentage of people who would live to at least 90 if they were born in the half-decade listed. For example, a person born between 2010 and 2015 has about a 20% chance of living to at least 90, whereas a person born between 1950 and 1955 has about a 2% chance of living to at least 90. Again, these are global averages. Individual life expectancy depends on many other factors, including: location of birth, family income, family education, time of birth, unpredictable global events, etc. 23.5k Views · View Upvoters   James Martin , Technocrat and serial transformational Entrepreneur Answered Oct 8, 2016 · Author has 262 answers and 177.8k answer views It really depends on whether you base it on the population when they were born and have now lived over 90 years or against the current population. I would argue that it should be based on the rest of the population born back then and have survived until now. Given the world population was just under 2 billion people in 1926 (90 years ago) and the population has almost gained another 6 billion people since then, the percentage that made it is obviously 4 times greater than the statistics when compared to the entire current population. The percentage of people born 90+ years ago that are still alive sits at around 4% today. But that is expected to increase for those born today in 90 years from now to some estimates of 20%. However, given we have a global declining birth rate, and most population growth is now currently through ageing (living longer), the financial strain already on countries’ pension funds to support people for an additional 20+ years, the increased cost of healthcare, elderly care, and reduced worker to retiree ratio we are likely to see voluntary (and in some places mandatory) euthanasia put pressures on keeping those numbers down. Issues like dementia and alzheimer’s also play a big role on the quality of life for those over 90. The question should be who lives in their 90s and who merely exists in their 90s. A sound body and sound mind in your 90s is a life long journey and discipline with a combination of diet, exercise (both physical and mental), will, and attitude. If you live to your 90s, statistically you will have buried all your friends your age. If you had three children in your twenties, you will have outlived two of them. There are a lot of hard realities that go with living into your 90s, but there can be some great rewards if you start working on it before you turn 40. To decide if you want to live to your 90s, you need to look at the longevity in your own family. You have to make a very conscious effort to living as much a possible a low risk, stress reduced life and severely limit sugar, fats, salt that lead to heart disease and chronic poor health. 12.3k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Udacity.com Develop new tech skills. Be in demand. Learn to use Python, R, SQL, and Tableau to uncover insights and create data-driven solutions. Learn More at udacity.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Matthew Greene , studied at Earth Answered Nov 1, 2015 · Author has 94 answers and 73.6k answer views A person born now would have a 1 in 3 chance in living to their 100th birthday. In current years, the number of people past their 90s have increased by 4 times in the last 30 years to over 400,000. If you're still young and healthy, you have a high chance of living into the 90s. Source: Number of people living past 90 has trebled to 440,000 in the last 30 years Source: How likely are you to live to 100? Get the full data 16k Views · View Upvoters   Dave Ryan , 15 Years Implementing Estimating, Pricing, CRM, ERP and eCommerce Systems Answered Aug 1, 2016 This is a more interesting question than I originally thought. Yuge implications for society 30 years from now. Lots of growth opportunities for life care facilities … but we better come up with new bio-technologies to cure our expensive end of life healthcare maladies (Note: I will be one of those 90 year olds in 30 years) or today’s budget battles between K-12 school funding and SS + medicare will seem quaint. Rather than me replay a good article I suggest reading the following UN paper: http://www.un.org/esa/population... 7.4k Views · View Upvoters   Robert Cameron , former Biology Professor (retired) Answered Nov 3, 2016 · Author has 3.5k answers and 799.3k answer views I like both Mathew’s and Dave’s answers. I have some qualifiers. First it depends where you were born: life expectancy varies a lot between countries. Your best bet (I think) is to be Japanese. Second, all the estimates we read about assume at least the present levels of medical care, diet, ability to suppress the spread of disease; many projections assume these things will continue to improve. I have doubts that these assumptions are true. Leave aside the long-term effects of the obesity epidemic, we should face the possibilities that war, economic collapse and an inability to keep up with resistance in bacteria and viruses may have big effects. We may be at peak life expectancy. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters   Sal Barone , works at Purdue University Answered Apr 25, 2017 · Author has 106 answers and 31.6k answer views Not sure but Gapminder Unveiling the beauty of statistics for a fact based world view. has a lot of that kind of statistics in an easy to use interface. 2k Views · Answer requested by  Cay Cooper   Andrew Targowski , former Professor Emeritus at Western Michigan University (1980-2017) Answered Mar 2, 2017 · Author has 3.4k answers and 485.7k answer views Depending on a country, it is growing number, going to several hundred thounsands in the US. 428 Views Related Questions What percentage of people live in countries of which they are not citizens? What percentage of people use drugs? What percentage of people use computer? What percentage of people in wheelchairs live with pain? What percentage of men live past 90? What percentage of people throughout their entire lives never get arrested in the U.S.? What percentage of people are living in villages in India? What percentage of people worldwide are religious? How many people are living? What percentage of people are born normal? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What percentage of people live to the age of 80? What percentage of people live to be at least 25 without having children? What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people living in the year 1600 have descendents who are alive today? What percentage of people can speak Arabic? What percentage of people live in countries of which they are not citizens? What percentage of people use drugs? What percentage of people use computer? What percentage of people in wheelchairs live with pain? What percentage of men live past 90? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Quality of Life  Longevity  Meaning of Life  Purpose  Aging  Life and Living Is it really worth it to live to over 80 years? Update Cancel ad by Arden Courts Helpful resources from Arden Courts. Loved one diagnosed with Alzheimer's or related dementias? Arden Courts helps with memory care placement. Learn More at arden-courts.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 100 + Answers Quora User , Sailing through life Answered Dec 3, 2017 · Author has 119 answers and 863.9k answer views My grandfather passed away at the age of 95 in 2015. Seeing how he lived, I think it’s definitely worth living over 80. He was a farmer until 70. He had amazing health and did not know what fever was until he was 82. He lived in the village, walked everywhere, and took the bus when he traveled to the city to see us. When his grandkids got married, he was so excited to go out and give wedding cards to our relatives. My grandma passed away in the year 2000 and he lived on his own since. He either ate at my aunt’s place or had someone cook for him. He loved his independence. He had a beautiful daily routine. He woke up every morning at the same time at 5.30 am, took a shower, had breakfast, read the newspaper, and walked to the village center to catch up with his buddies. His brother lived opposite his house, so they would chat every evening until it was time to sleep. He was smart and did not have a formal education. He could calculate the principal and interest on loans without using pen and paper. He was the witness when illiterate people around him were borrowing money from one another, so they could be sure they weren’t being cheated. People came to him for advice. They invited him for their wedding and family functions all of which he gladly attended. He was diagnosed with stomach cancer a few months before he passed away. He chose not to do anything about it and passed away in his sleep. 1100 people attended his post-funeral reception. Here’s a picture of him at 92 years old in November 2012. 21.9k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Care.com Senior care help in your area. Keep life on track for aging parents. Find in-home senior care today. Sign Up at care.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions More Answers Below Can you live to 80 years without health issues? Why do we only live, on average, 80 years? Is it so the earth doesn't become over populated? How can I live to 100? What percent of men live over 80 years? Is there really a Chinese man who lived to be over 200 years? Ask New Question   Tessa E. Tea , I took anthropology classes in college. Answered May 3, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 1.3k answers and 2.9m answer views My dad just hit his 80th birthday.  We had a big party at a local restaurant with all of his children, their spouses, eight of his nine grandchildren and some of their partners plus several of his good friends.  He got two birthday cakes. A week later, he and my mom went off on their annual European skiing trip with their skiing group to the Alps with a side trip to Prague because they had never been to Prague. He teaches skiing in the winter, hikes and golfs, goes to the beach each year with all his children and their families and travels around the country in the summer with his brothers and their wives. He gave up smoking in the late sixties, took up jogging in the '70s and became serious about physical fitness in the '80s.  He loves good food but is abstemious in his eating habits.  He enjoys good wine but never to an excess.  He likes a cocktail in the evening but only during that week at the beach with his family.  He keeps a journal and is active in his church. He worked his way through college while on an ROTC scholarship and served two years in the Air Force after graduation.  His service entailed living in Japan for nearly two years in the late '50s where officers lived like young millionaires.  They worked hard, but played golf, ate steak dinners at the officers' club and drank good booze for cheap prices.  His first exposure to the ballet was to see Dame Margot Fonteyn dancing with Rudolph Nureyev and the tickets were given free to the officers.   He has been married to my mother for fifty four years and has five children, all of whom graduated from college.  He has two bachelors' degrees and a masters.  He retired early as a director for an international electronics firm and has been reveling in retirement.  He has a lovely home, a devoted wife and a beautiful garden. In a few weeks we will all go to California to see the first of his grandchildren to be married. You tell me if it is worth it to live beyond 80. Depends on how you live. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Warehouse Employee at Coop Schweiz (2011-present) Answered Oct 10, 2016 · Author has 3.2k answers and 3.1m answer views As somebody who is closer to be above 80 than being 25, one cannot avoid to look around to see how really old people are leading their lives. Here in Switzerland, we have a lot of old people, actually even as a man, you can expect to live for 81 years. So one can say, that Switzerland is a “Place for old men”. But in what state do all these people to that age? Unfortunately, by far the most are getting there needing all sorts of care. When talking to folks a bit older than myself you are hard-pressed to meet someone who has not regular doctor’s appointments. Many are popping pills as part of their daily routines. Almost nobody without some sort of surgery. While it might be true that our modern lifestyle has added many years to our lifespan, these additional years are used up in a good part for being sick. Additionally, old people are less mobile and tend to settle down in their neighborhood. In Switzerland, there are A LOT of single seniors. Most having become divorced and never found a new life-partner. Children living far-off their own life. Friends from youth spread out across half of Europe. Physical abilities diminish and one cannot participate anymore in activities like hiking, which are popular with people. This has not to be like that, but all too often unfortunately it is what you will experience. Add to that the specter of pension systems quickly becoming unsustainable and healthcare costs going through the roof, one better gets prepared. Not for some imaginary “Golden years” to come up, where you happily ride into the sunset of your life. Better get prepared to live out your lifespan to remain working and active til your last day. Not full-time as an employee necessarily. Try to not to get sick with chronic disease. And yes, do not worry about getting sick with seasonal flu or the like. Avoid falling into the trap of year-long torture by the medical industry at the end of your life. It is better to go getting the flu than to get your prostata removed at 80 and to live out your last months in and out of a hospital. Life is not a race where you get to win when having lived longer than everybody else. There are way too many people out there who do not really live these years at all. 977 Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Boomerang for Gmail Ever wonder how your emails are coming across? Boomerang Respondable uses AI to give you real-time advice on how to improve your emails. Learn More at boomeranggmail.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Quora User Answered Oct 4, 2017 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine My mother will be 90 years old soon. I just asked her how old she feels inside. She said around 20. Her brain is still sharp and fast, even if her body is not. She’s definitely not ready to pack it in. She loves to watch Jeopardy and Wheel of Fortune and is pretty good with her answers. She is also a big fan of baseball and knows the names of all the Blue Jays. She started taking piano lessons two years ago and surprised her family of amateur musicians with her own little Christmas concert. She can still prepare the most divine meals, such as only mothers of her generation could do. I think her secret ingredient is love , because I have all her recipes, yet cannot duplicate her results (according to my daughter). She continues her hobby of quilting, which she used to sew by hand, but now due to her arthritic fingers must use the sewing machine. Everyone in the family has at least one of her quilts. Most recently she started sewing for her great-grandchildren, the ones born so far and a little extra inventory for future babies in case she won’t be around to see them all ( “some grandchildren need to get on with it” ). In her opinion the answer is yes, it certainly is worth living as long as possible. Here are two samples of her most recent quilts: 20.2k Views · View Upvoters   Stan Hayward , former Film/TV scriptwriter Updated Jan 1, 2018 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 4.7k answers and 13.8m answer views I shall be 87 next month I am totally deaf, partially blind, and can only read books with difficulty, so it is many years since I read a book, though I can read a computer screen easily I’m very much overweight, and take pills daily, which I will do for life Problems with legs and lungs make me largely housebound I live alone, apart from my cat, but I am lucky in so far as I can look after myself Most of my friends of my generation are gone, and several are severely ill or have dementia, but also several others of my generation are still working To some extent it is the gene lottery that keeps one going though not always. My father was ill all his life, and died at 43 He, like my mother, could not swim or ride a bicycle I could do both, as of course, could everyone of my generation Both of my grandfathers were illiterate My mother and father could read, but neither ever read a book There were no books in the house other than those I got myself My mother had two still born children prior to myself, and told me that I was a sickly child, so it would seem that neither nurture or Nature favored me So what is it that keeps one going into old age? In my case it was largely the Times one was born in My grandparents born in the 1870–80’s London were poor They worked full time as young teenagers, so denied an education My parents born in 1900, were slightly better off, but as young teenagers were caught up in the 1914–18 war and later the Great Depression. They had few choices in life, and simply accepted that surviving was meeting the battles of the day My generation - 1930’s - were again better off, but there were few people I knew who owned a phone or a car, and even a radio was a luxury, but we did have one thing; WW2 Yes, WW2 had its downsides, but it did provide free travel, and a wide range of opportunities to be educated, and meet people if you were in the military, and if not, work was plentiful. My mother who had earned a pitiful living as a house cleaner before the war, was now a machine operator in a wartime munitions factory, and getting relatively good money Wartime, for my generation who are now in the 70–90’s, had to look after themselves. Not so much in the USA, quite a bit in the UK, and totally in war-torn Europe There was a great sense of purpose that a ‘World fit for heroes’ might exist, though not quite In answer to the question ‘Is it worth it to live over 80 years? ’ My grandparents never knew, nor my parents, though a few crossed the line It is common enough in my generation, but there is a ‘Dark zone’ where you know that even a slight illness can lead to complications But today, anyone under 60 will most likely live past 80 and will do so in the knowledge that they are generally a button away from getting help if needed What can you do if you make it to 80? Well, if your brain and heart are in relatively good condition, you will be surprised to know that you will feel about 40, or even less If you want to make it to 80, my advice is go for it You will not be short of company EDIT Several people have commented about their elderly relatives who suffer from illness and loneliness. It has been suggested that more people die of loneliness than illness, but worse, many who suffer from loneliness are neither ill nor old Part of the problem is both obvious and yet invisible. Here is a typical 1930’s sitting room of the sort I grew up in. No black boxes with shiny knobs and buttons. Somewhere a large radio; shelves with a few treasured possessions. Every such room would have a personality of the owner. Designed to be warm and comfortable. One could go into most houses and recognize all the items; a windup clock; a sewing basket; a few books (no TV), a coal fire with coal tongs and poker, and a bucket of coal beside the fire, and a toasting fork (In this picture you can see a small hand pump on the left hand side of the fireplace. It was used to blow air when you started the fire every day, that is, after you had raked the cinders out, made firelighters out of rolled up newspapers, sorted out unburnt cinders, and cleaned up. You bought small bundles of wood as fire starters, and if you had the money, then you could buy wax covered paper that lit up instantly (what luxury) Every technological advancement took away a minor joy. The electric toaster took away the joy of using a toasting fork to make toast in front of an open coal fire that you stared into, as if hypnotized as the coal burnt and created shapes. The toast would be covered in home made jam. One felt safe in such surroundings When my mother made an apple pie, I saw her make the dough, roll it out, peel the apples, stoke the cast iron stove, boil the custard, lay the table, poke the pie with a knife to see if it was cooked, then deliver it triumphantly straight from the oven to us as we waited in anticipation On first taste, we look at her and say ‘It’s delicious, can I have a second helping’. She would smile. It was her way of saying ‘I love you all’, and our way of saying ‘We know you do’ Technology has given us microwave ovens, precooked pies, and tinned custard, but there is one ingredient they left out That is why the elderly are lonely 181.8k Views · View Upvoters   Barry Hampe , 80-something grandfather, husband, atheist, writer, pilot, libertarian, sage Updated Sep 21, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine · Author has 9.1k answers and 18m answer views Is it really worth it to live to over 80 years? I mean you would have a decreased quality of life. And a lot of the people you know would start to die off. Having passed my 81st birthday in July, I have to say that it beats the alternative. If I had died at 79 I would not have experienced watching the granddaughter that I have helped care for since she was a baby, grow into a little girl who just beams love at her Papa and her Nana. (As do her three older sisters.) I would not be here to be engaged in a new family adventure taking place this year. And my quality of life is just fine. For example, I recently had cataract surgery on both eyes and now can see without glasses for the first time in 40 years. Yes, I don't run any marathons. But I never did. Most people seem to think I still make sense when I answer questions on Quora (except for a couple of folks I had to block -- you know who you are). I still drive, do the shopping. I watch movies on a big screen at home. It's still a good life. 111.4k Views · View Upvoters   Colleen Farrelly , Data Scientist/Poet/Social Scientist/Topologist (2009-present) Answered Feb 22, 2018 · Author has 6.2k answers and 6.2m answer views I am still young, but my grandmother is in her mid-90's. She enjoys visits from the neighbors and relatives. She has taken up many hobbies and intellectual pursuits since my grandfather passed (in their 80's). She wants to live to see the future and what sort of technology/robots/other gadgets will be invented. She's been involved in research studies of living healthy after 80 because she loves research and figuring out tough puzzles like genomics. My grandfather lived well into his 80's and probably would still be going if the VA hadn't given him MRSA. He was fixing cars and re-roofing the house at 88. I have no doubt he'd be tinkering around in the garage or engineering room in their house if he were still alive. He didn't have an education but loved to learn and tinker. I was born when they were older than most grandparents, and my cousins came along when they were close to 80. They very much enjoyed seeing us grow up and being able to grandparent. My grandma has watched us grow up (me at 32 and my youngest cousin at 19), and she's fought hard to live well into old age to see that. 3.2k Views · View Upvoters   Melanie Arabsky Ledger , worked at IT Project Management Answered Feb 19, 2018 · Author has 450 answers and 715.9k answer views My dad is 88, he and my mom (who is 78) sold their house and moved into a townhouse ( sectional title) three years ago so that my dad could stop having to go up the ladder and clean the gutters, take care of the whole yard, other house maintenance etc. In those three years he’s completely transformed the little yard the townhouse had and has a little vegetable garden going in alongside the flower borders… He is the only person I’ve ever heard of who actually totally wore out an exercise bike – we got him a new one, he also enjoys using an elliptical machine. He had a heart attack scare almost 30 years ago and has been faithfully exercising ever since - his favourite TV viewing while exercising is Judge Judy! My mom has just been diagnosed with Parkinson’s, which in many ways is a relief because it puts the name and diagnosis on the changes and difficulties she’s experienced over the past few years. They both spend a lot of time at their church helping out and socializing. So he is In good health and they are living independently. My sister and I are less than an hour away and make an effort to see them frequently, and our collective three kids kids love to visit them. Now that mom is on her Parkinson’s medication she’s also feeling good enough to come to our house for dinners, but we also enjoyed bringing a spread to their house so we could still treat them to dinner when mom wasn’t comfortable leaving the house.. So depending on who you are, I think 80 is very early cut off for healthy, happy and independent life! 19.7k Views · View Upvoters   Eva Newman , A bio for aging?? Not yet! I'm not old enough. Answered May 1, 2016 · Upvoted by  Johnty Andersen · Author has 660 answers and 1.1m answer views Thank you for the A2A. I'm only 70, so you will have to wait for an answer, but i'll let you know in 10 years. For the moment, I live no different than I did when 30 or 40 and sadly am not much wiser either. Most things I can think of have a more positive rather than negative aspect although climbing 4 flights of stairs does get me out of breath nowadays. (re read this sentence and had to change it. 4 flights of stairs nowadays sorta make me crawl on all fours after panting the first three flight, and I have considering not making it to the fourth floor and sleeping on the stairs.  Sex has also decreased, now down to two or three times a week (no visualising please), but that is more due to my partner than to me. Opening jars has become more difficult due to slight arthritis in my right hand, but i'm capable of sleeping on a jungle floor and riding motorbikes through illegal parts of foreign countries. Upside is kidnappers aren't really interested in kidnapping a 70 year old woman, I can vouch for that, having run into a couple in  Sabah  (Borneo)...they kidnapped a younger couple a few weeks after I met them, but that was already two or three years ago, when I was still a young whipper snipper... Cheers. 4.8k Views · View Upvoters   Herma Swij , Into measuring the human body according it's parts. Answered Apr 30, 2016 · Author has 1.3k answers and 730.6k answer views Every day alive is worth it, regardless ones age. Event though elderly people often have health complaints and sometimes are lonely and dependent on others at the same time, most of them are happy to wake up every morning. Elderly people often seem to be aware of the preciousness of life even more than young people and are able to enjoy the small things in life. I know a lot of elderly people above 80, including my mother, who I have to call several days before visiting them, so they can fit me in their busy schedule. They sometimes get tired of life due to all the small and sometimes bigger pains in their body, and all the inconveniences of an elderly body, but in general that's just temporary, it just lasts till the next high tea or Rummikub tournament. 4.1k Views · View Upvoters   Ali Bakrolwala , I have travelled to 17 countries, 3 continents and 12 States Answered Dec 4, 2017 · Author has 806 answers and 1.7m answer views Yes, it is. My father is 83. A practicing Doctor. (MBBS). Though he retired from service in 1992, he started his private practice the next day he retired. He is a pensioner too. My father is a COPD(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patient and he had to be operated in 1962 and half of his lung was removed. Since then a disciplined lifestyle, healthy eating habits, waking up and sleeping habits, work and hobbies keep him healthy, with the grace of God. (My father and me). My father was practicing in Lunawada(Gujarat) since 1964 and shifted to Vadodara(in his home where I stay) in 2015, and since then he is giving voluntary(free) service in a Relief Clinic near our home, 1 hour in the morning and 1 hour in the evening. His daily routine is, getting up at 5 am, doing Pranayam, for 45 minutes(that is a strict regime since his COPD surgery), prayers, breakfast at 6.30/7 am, reading newspapers and meeting someone who comes to visit him till 9.30 am. At 10–11 he goes to the clinic, then he goes to the nearby market to buy fruits/vegetables and reaches home by 11.30. He has his hobby in writing and he writes after that, then lunch, afternoon siesta, and back to the clinic at 4.30–5.30 pm. He goes for evening prayers and later we have dinner and he sleeps by 10 pm. He sends his written works to the local newspapers and they get printed sometimes. My mother is 79, and she is B.Sc .(Home Science), she is a RMP(Rural Medical Practitioner) too, and assisted my father in his clinic. She is a social worker and president of, Lunawada Sahakari Gruh Mandi since 1982. She was also a member of the Lunawada Nagarpalika(corporator) in 1990. She is a member of Sardar Sahakari Udyog Limited in Vadodara and was the chief guest to Hoist the flag on 15th August. Our family at the venue, My parents 53 anniversary, Me and my parents, Hence it is worth living to 80 or more but you need a disciplined lifestyle, work and hobbies that make each day a day to look forward too. 862 Views · View Upvoters   Indrayani Chakraborty , worked at I Work Independently. Answered Sep 29, 2017 · Author has 70 answers and 87.5k answer views Depends. My grand parents lived for 85 and 90 years.. Had typical geriatric problems, but yet lived a healthy life. However, of note there was a family of over 8 children and 16 grand children around them to take care of them. So they could afford to fall sick, get hospitalized, be on medication…blah blah The problem with today’s generation is there is no strong social/family support system. Most of us in India have moved away from the joint family to nuclear family structure with one or two children. Our lifestyle is not as healthy as our grand parents. That makes us prone to lifestyle disorders at a very young age. I personally believe I would like to live up to age 60 so that my children do not have to take the burden of my illness/ geriatric problems. Besides at that age, the quality of life would be very impaired. Every day might be a new pain - blindness, deafness, high BP, diabetes, joint pain and what not! So upto 60 is good enough 341 Views · View Upvoters   Jacky Dror , freedom of thought knows no bounds Answered Aug 27, 2016 · Author has 3.3k answers and 6.1m answer views What would you suggest? Have you got a cut off age in mind when we old folk should start jumping off a cliff? I know - I know, it is quite usual when you are young and have your whole life ahead of you to think that old people are surplus to requirements and good for nothing except sponging from the state with our pensions and free travel passes. Although I am a young 70 now, I did feel this way, especially after the Brexit vote in the UK when the young were upset with the older generation who by and large were responsible for the out vote. The young Remainers were basically saying “we are the ones that have our lives ahead of us, you have had the best part of yours, you really should not count any more. You are responsible for ruining our future”. Of course that was really hard to take and how wrong this assumption was. Firstly since the Brexit vote the UK has not collapsed and the Remainers said it would. Only this week they announced that profits are up in many respects. Exports are up. True the pound has weakened a little but it is early days yet. It will recover. The oldsters are still going about their business. Yes we should count. No we should not be written off. My aunt has just died a couple of months ago. She was 92. Until she had her accident at 90 (broken her hip being knocked down by a car) she was still maintaining a home of her own - carer for my uncle 94 and blind. She went shopping with my cousin. She cooked. She socialised. Even after the accident she survived in her own home for another couple of years. I went to visit her every week. She always made me laugh. An absolutely amazing woman. My uncle is now alone being cared for by his 2 sons and 2 daughters. Of course he is quite depressed being left after being married over 60 years, but that is life. There are so much positives to be said by reaching old age. We are off of that extreme treadmill of trying to succeed. We are already there. We do not have to worry about achieving or extreme competition, or keeping up appearances. Most of us are by now in better financial situations than the struggling young trying to get on housing ladders. We have nurtured our children and now sit back with pride watching our grandchildren grow stage by stage. We can look after them with all the strength we have, and then give them back at the end of the day. It is a win win situation. Health of course, plays a big part in how well we proceed to our old age. Not the fact that people are dying around us. Young people unfortunately die too, and when we reach a certain age we understand that is the way of the world. When you will get here eventually you too will understand, the quality of life does not decrease, in fact in many ways it actually ‘grows’. 1.3k Views · View Upvoters   Peter T Mayer , Founder at Myfingerprintart.com Answered Feb 21, 2017 · Author has 2.1k answers and 31.6m answer views I think it depends on your physical and mental health and whether you have a family and friends who care for you and visit you. I am only 39 but I have a lot of old people in my life, starting with my own parents. The ones that are happy over the age of 80 are the ones that are healthy enough to be able to still do most of the things they did when they were younger and also who have good mental health. Once older people’s health condition starts deteriorating, it is harder for them to find strong reasons to live. Unless they have loving kids and grandkids who care for them. That is definitely and extra motivation for their hunger to live. Being alone when you are old is one of the saddest things you can experience. If you know old people, please visit them, call them and show them in general that you love them and respect them. 1.9k Views · View Upvoters   Alex Ladov Answered Oct 18, 2017 · Author has 628 answers and 663.7k answer views In 1991 I worked in Hamburg/Germany in “Alten und Pflegeheim” i.e. in Nursing home care - Wikipedia I saw many people over 80, over 90 and some over 100. And very few who really lived. The thing is that to reduce workload and sometimes childish requests (even Germans want some attention from time to time), ALL residents were given a small cup of pills every day, they called them vitamins but I guess that included painkillers and sedatives too. Most of these elderly people could walk, eat and defecate, but they practically could not talk to each other (in addition to pills, most people in Hamburg are not communicative at all). Most of them were never or very rarely visited by children/grandchildren. Mostly vegetable-like life without any purpose, just watching TV in their own rooms and minimal communication with cleaning and other personnel. I would rather die than live such life. Maybe I skipped some Quora responses, but I didn’t see any from a nursing home. All answers from old people are from those who live independently or with children. Then life is worth living of course. But if you become just a brainless burden taking time and money from younger generation - life makes no sense. Perhaps we should have option of donation to a worthy cause in exchange for dying voluntarily when life in not worth living anymore. Modern medicine can provide life-support to our bodies well beyond ability to live normally, and nowadays people die simply when doctors decide to stop artificially prolonged life. I would prefer to die voluntarily at 80 if I knew that my relatives will get some money from my pension. 502 Views · View Upvoters   Johnty Andersen , Researcher into Biotechnology, Nanotechnology and Anti-Aging Medicine Answered Oct 23, 2017 · Author has 910 answers and 793.3k answer views Clearly as things currently stand I would imagine that commonsense is you want to check out before you reach the stage of becoming dysfunctional and in extreme pain with no quality of life but even at 80+ some people are still very functional, for example my uncle is 83 and still traveling long haul with a trip every month to somewhere, Arizona last month, Tenerife next month and the Bahamas currently for two weeks, frankly even I would be exhausted by his routine and I am a seasoned traveler! His life in his 80s is still great and he uses an iPhone, iPad etc and is always learning and planning, his only fear is it ending! As a researcher into aging I am often asked to define what aging is so here is my definition - Aging is the progressive and inexorable accumulation of molecular and cellular damage which leads to loss of physical function increasing infirmity, elevated risk of chronic illness, and ultimately death - . Once we address those issues by repairing the accumulated damage we will be pretty much home and dry and living a long life will no longer automatically go hand in hand with infirmity and suffering. Throughout our history if there has been a route by which we can lead healthier, happier and more productive lives we have tended to take it and that is the reason why anti-aging medicine will progress down exactly the same route and why arguments such as we are interfering with nature, it’s morally wrong etc simply do not have any validity at all. As soon as we had the means, historically we have tackled all of the diseases which tended to kill people, for example, polio, smallpox — which used to kill millions. Infections which were one of the main killers before we had antibiotics because you must keep in mind that people could simply cut themselves while they were working in their backyard or women could suffer an infection during childbirth, which would kill both her and the baby. Even worse, something simple such as an infected finger or toe could lead to amputation of the whole hand or foot because there was no other route to bring the infection under control, even that frequently didn't work because there was no way that you could actually prevent infection which could arise from the amputation itself. These days not only are there antibiotics but we have retroviral drugs to tackle AIDS, we have insulin to manage diabetes, Ace inhibitors and beta-blockers to tackle high blood pressure, the list is endless. Add in all the surgical procedures such as cataract surgery, new joints and all sorts of other interventions such as cardiac surgery, for example, a heart bypass or stents which increase the person's quality of life and the trend is pretty obvious. As soon as we can bring aging under a decisive level of clinical control, clearly we will. The most bizarre thing in my mind is that we seem to try and tackle the main diseases of aging such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, arthritis and neurodegenerative diseases individually but what we seem to fail to grasp is we're not actually attacking the root cause which is aging itself we are simply attacking the end result. Tackle aging and you would inevitably address the diseases of aging because these conditions mainly affect old people and do not frequently strike at the young. We don't know at this stage exactly how far off the first effective anti-aging therapies are but what we can reasonably assume is they are probably no less than 10 years away and probably not much more than 30 years so for many people alive now being confronted with many of the diseases of aging will not arise because the conditions will be under a decisive level of biomedical control. 474 Views · View Upvoters   Michael Jordan , Writer  at Health (2003-present) Answered Apr 2, 2018 Why don't Americans want to live longer? 1. The more you associate medical treatment with higher quality of life, the more you favor life extension. Respondents who think “medical treatments these days are worth the costs because they allow people to live longer and better quality lives” are evenly divided on the idea of extending life to 120 years. Forty-eight percent say it would be good for society; 46 percent say it would be bad. But respondents who say “medical treatments these days often create as many problems as they solve” are firmly against life extension. By a ratio of nearly 2-to-1—60 to 33 percent—they say it would be bad for society. 2. The more you associate longevity with productivity, the more you favor life extension. Respondents who think that if people lived to 120, “our economy would be more productive because people could work longer” believe by a lopsided margin—65 to 29 percent—that such longevity would be good for society. Those who don’t think people would work longer or increase productivity take the opposite view: Seventy-two percent say extended life would be bad for society. 3 . The more you see extended life as a resource burden, the more you oppose it. By a ratio of nearly 2-to-1, respondents who think that “longer life expectancies would strain our natural resources” say that living to 120 would be bad for society. Respondents who reject the strained-resources claim draw the opposite conclusion: Fifty-nine percent say extended life would be socially beneficial. 4. The more you see old folks as a problem, the more you oppose life extension. Respondents who think having “more elderly people” is good for society are evenly split on extending life to 120 years. Respondents who think having more elderly people is bad solidly oppose this increase in longevity: Seventy-one percent say it would be bad for society. 5 . The older you are, the less likely you are to favor life extension. Respondents ages 18 to 29 are closely divided: Forty-eight percent say that living to 120 would be good for society. In the next bracket, ages 30 to 49, support slips just a tad: Forty-six percent say living the extra decades would be good. At ages 50 to 64, support drops to 37 percent. At ages 65 and older, support drops to 31 percent. When respondents are asked whether they personally would want treatments to extend life by decades, the trend isn’t as clear, but it’s similar: The percentage who say yes falls from 43 percent in the 30–49 age bracket to 35 percent in the 50–64 age bracket and then to 31 percent in the 65-and-older bracket. The simplest explanation for this pattern is that the older you are, the harder it is to imagine your extra decades as healthy and vibrant. 6. The less you’re looking forward to the next decade, the less you favor life extension. Among respondents who think their lives will be better in the next 10 years, 42 percent say they’d want treatments so they could live to 120. Among respondents who think their lives will be the same, 35 percent say they’d want such treatments. Among those who think their lives will be worse, only 28 percent want the treatments. 7. People don’t want to live past the age at which severe diseases and disabilities are expected. When respondents are asked how long they’d like to live, fewer than 10 percent choose 100 or older. Twenty percent want to live into their 90s. Thirty-two percent want to live into their 80s. Thirty percent don’t want to make it past 80. Why do most people want to die before they reach 90? Probably because being 90 sucks. But that’s true only because of the current rate of physical decline. These 5 steps reveal the things you absolutely MUST AVOID if you want to slow the aging process, reclaim your health, and achieve your ideal body. 715 Views · View Upvoters Quora User , Caporegime at Mafia II (2016-present) Answered Sep 27, 2017 · Author has 200 answers and 104.9k answer views My paternal Grandfather never used a walking stick and used to do all his chores himself. He had no medical restrictions on the type of food to be consumed. Except nuts because his teeth weren't as supportive as the rest of him. His memory was in-tact, he enjoyed great respect from everyone because he used to do some social work and help poor people financially. He passed away naturally at the age of 84 . My paternal Grandmother starting using a walking stick four years prior to her death. She too had no medical restrictions on her food, she even used to drink cream milk until the very last. Her teeth were stronger. She helped in household chores daily and cooked food. She enjoyed her last years playing with her great-grandson. She passed away naturally at the age of 90 . Both of them attended all of their grandson’s weddings(except me). Seeing their children prosper and share great unity and love between each other left them with no worries or regrets. I think it was totally worth it! 258 Views · View Upvoters   Michael Clarke , Founder & CEO (2017-present) Answered Nov 24, 2017 · Author has 227 answers and 1.6m answer views Is Cilla right to say life's NOT worth living after 75? Despite being 67, Cilla Black has insisted she had no desire to ‘linger’ into old age. Should she be applauded or does life only get better with age? Three women join the debate. RIGHT says Virginia Ironside, 66 So, what’s your response to hearing the news that 67-year-old Cilla Black doesn’t want to live beyond 75? Shock? Horror? Or do you feel, as I do: ‘Good for her!’ Every time I hear of another kind of medical intervention that means we might live longer, my heart sinks. Not because I don’t like life — indeed, I’ve been happier since I turned 60 than ever before — but because in my book we live far too long already. At 66, and already living far longer than centuries of my forefathers, I feel I am on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus. Good f0r Cilla! Virginia Ironside agrees, feeling she is on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus Good for Cilla! Virginia Ironside agrees, feeling she is on borrowed time as it is, and that every day is a bonus There are two particular reasons I applaud Cilla and go along with her views. The first is that, like Cilla, who saw her mother live her last years in agony with osteoarthritis, I don’t want to become helpless, dependent and suffering. And although it’s true that I might not become like that, the odds shorten with every passing year. Already, I’m staggering about without a colon, and I’m not looking forward to having two operations on my feet in the future on joints that have ‘degenerated’. As the great Sigmund Freud, in his dotage, wrote in a letter to a friend: ‘I still cannot get used to the grief and afflictions of old age, and I look ­forward with longing to the journey into the void.’ The second reason I back Cilla is that, however much we campaign, rightly, that the old should be treated with dignity, the truth is that soon we won’t be able to afford it. By 2030, there’ll be so many old ­people and so few young ones, there just won’t be the manpower to keep the oldies going in a decent way, let alone the resources. Not only that, there comes a moment when dignity becomes impossible. If I have to be changed and dressed and toileted, or I have to spoonfed, it doesn’t matter how much they call me ‘Miss Ironside’ and avert their eyes, it’s undignified, full stop. ­Personally, I’d prefer not to experience it. I was recently part of a discussion on Ageing and Medicine, and everyone was saying how wonderful old people are, as, indeed, many are, and how they should be treated with respect and go on for as long as possible. My view that we shouldn’t live too long after 70 was met with horror. WRONG says Katharine Whitehorn, 82 Cilla Black’s comments about life not being worth living after the age of 75 reminded me of a misguided babysitter we once had — the girl mourned the arrival of her 17th birthday, afraid she was beginning the end of her youth. Cilla is just as wrong to fear life in her late 70s and beyond. No one would deny that life is not a bundle of laughs if you have two or three diseases and a pressing need for a high-speed stairlift that gets you upstairs before you’ve forgotten why you wanted to go. But nor is being ill or incapacitated at any age, and there are huge differences between those at the beginning of their older age and those, maybe 20 or 30 years later, crumbling towards the end. I had a great-aunt who said with some irritation: ‘After 90, I find one ages rather.’ Another extremely fiesty aunt drove me up the highest pass in the British Isles when she was 91; she used to talk about all the fun she’d had in her 80s when she was governor of one school and running a bursary fund for another. Perhaps women like those were the forerunners of this new generation of sprightly retirees we see today. I’m 82 and I have plenty of contemporaries who go on cruises, or a camel-trek across the Australian Outback; others learn Italian, ­volunteer for charities or even start new ones. And then there are those who, if they’ve had interesting lives, write books (my late husband, thriller writer Gavin Lyall, used to ask ­irritably why so many people who’d got bored with their own careers tended to relapse into his). What’s missing from our thinking — and Cilla’s — is the realisation that life is no longer divided into three parts: first childhood and youth; then adult life, when one works and women had children; and finally Old Age, past it, drooling, in a wheelchair, needing care. These 5 steps reveal the things you absolutely MUST AVOID  if you want to slow the aging process, reclaim your health, leave longer and achieve your ideal body. 4.6k Views · View Upvoters   Brian Sniatkowski , 58 years old and feeling it. Answered May 16, 2016 · Author has 2.8k answers and 1.2m answer views It all depends on your attitude and health. Taking care of yourself in your earlier years can go a long way to enjoying life in your 80′s and sometimes it is simply a matter of good genes. I look at my mom and dad. Dad is 83 and mom is 82. My mom looks and acts like someone 20 years younger. A supermarket cashier recently mistook her for my wife (I’m 57). She is incredibly active, spending time driving her grandchildren to their many activities, playing card games with others in her retirement village, walking on the beach, surfing Facebook, swimming, cooking, reading and traveling. My dad on the other hand shows every bit of his 83 years. The pills he has to take every day, I have no idea how he keeps up with them. Yet he happily sits in his weelchair (which he chose to confine himself to, his physicians and therapists say he could walk if he really tried). He can bathe himself, use the bathroom and get in and out of bed on his own. He is content to wake up at 5 am, read some and eagerly awaits the morning newspaper. He enjoys a couple of glasses of wine at dinner time, discussing sports and politics, ordering useless items on Amazon, then watching the cable news programs until he goes to bed about 8. Not the sort of life I would want at that age, but he is content and has no interest in dying. Both still have strong minds and that is important. People can obviously live passable and sometimes very rewarding lives into their 80′s and beyond. 837 Views · View Upvoters 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Next → Related Questions What 10 things can I do now to have a better life? Can a man live for 200 years? Is an 80 year old lifespan good? What makes life worth living? How can I live 80 years when I am 16 years old right now? Is it worth living past 70? How can I live up to 70-80 years old? Do you think it’s worth living past 100 years old? Is life worth living after 30? What percentage of people live to the age of 80? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions Can you live to 80 years without health issues? Why do we only live, on average, 80 years? Is it so the earth doesn't become over populated? How can I live to 100? What percent of men live over 80 years? Is there really a Chinese man who lived to be over 200 years? What 10 things can I do now to have a better life? Can a man live for 200 years? Is an 80 year old lifespan good? What makes life worth living? How can I live 80 years when I am 16 years old right now? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Statistics (collected data)  Populations  Aging  Demographics  Life and Living What percentage of people live to the age of 80? Update Cancel ad by UC Berkeley Extension Want to learn basic statistic concepts? Sign up for introduction to statistics at UC Berkeley Extension. Classroom & online courses available. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 5 Answers   Twyla Naythias , Geekus Maximus (yes, it's legit) Answered Jan 5, 2016 · Author has 872 answers and 3.6m answer views Originally Answered: What percentage of people live past 80? The answer is fairly complex , as it also has a lot to do with when you're born. Among those who are presently 80 years old (born in 1935), 40% of men and 57% of women are still around.  The stats are clearly skewed in favor of women, though it should be noted that this demographic were the primary candidates for involvement with the wars in Korea and Vietnam. Among those who are presently 50 years old (born in 1965), 56.5% of men and 67.1% of women can expect to see eighty candles on their birthday cakes. Things are just a tiny bit more optimistic for near-millennials, with 60.3% of men and 70.4% of women likely to reach their 80th birthdays.  Barely 3% better odds than those thirty years their seniors. Not a great deal of difference among newborns, though things are beginning to shape up for men.  63.7% of boys and 72.8% of girls born this past year will live long enough to look forward to the 22nd century. 69.3k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below How is life at the age of 70-80? Does one get scared of death? My mom, who is healthy at 80, has dreams of death. What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people actually live to the age of their life expectancy? What percentage of people live into their 90s? At what age do most people die? Ask New Question   Michael Sierchio Answered Jan 20, 2018 The above histogram doesn’t directly answer your question, but - in the US, median life expectancy in 2011 was 78.7 years. Roughly half of all persons in the US are expected to live past 80. 3.4k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by Care.com Senior care help in your area. Keep life on track for aging parents. Find in-home senior care today. Sign Up at care.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Lonnie Tubb , former Retired Businessman (1962-1995) Answered Jan 18, 2017 Between 1980 and 2010 the death rate for men fell by 48 per cent and for women by 39 per cent. Scotland had the highest rate (785 deaths per 100,000 population for men and 552 for women) in the United Kingdom and England the lowest (639 and 456), while the rates have also declined the least north of the border. Back in 1980, more than half of all men and just under half of all women died between 60 and 79 years of age. But by 2010, increasing longevity meant that 43.3 per cent of men and 62 per cent of women died after their 80th birthday. “As the UK population continues to age, the percentage of all UK deaths at age 80 and over is also expected to continue increasing,” the ONS said. At the same time, the number of children dying has fallen so that girls and boys aged under 15 now account for just 1 per cent of deaths in Britain, now from 2 per cent in 1980. 19.7k Views · View Upvoters   Jacob Braniger Answered Mar 9, 2018 · Author has 109 answers and 9.2k answer views To add on to the other answers: These statistics do not represent how long you will live. If you want the number more specific to you, then look up life expectancy for people your age. Life expectancy is greatly affected by infant and child mortality rates, so if you lived through those years, your life expectancy will (and will always) go up. 733 Views   Justin Gleen , General Answered Apr 4, 2017 · Author has 472 answers and 154.2k answer views Hard to really answer without going over statistics and general population, I would say just due to things I've read and family/friends I've known. Majority of them have live up to and even past 80. So if I had to give a guess somewhere frommmm about 65–75% of people 17.1k Views · Answer requested by  Len Boylan promoted  by Arden Courts Helpful resources from Arden Courts. Loved one diagnosed with Alzheimer's or related dementias? Arden Courts helps with memory care placement. Learn More at arden-courts.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Related Questions What percentage of Americans live to be quite old (age 80 or older) and never suffer significant symptoms of dementia? What percentage of men live over the age of 60? Why do people live to different age? Do people that live beyond the age of 80 years old expected to live that long? What percentage of men live past 90? How do people die of old age? How many people or what percentage of people die before reaching age 30? At what age are people considered old? When people say, "People live to 110," what exact or average age do they live to? What percentage of Latinos live to age 93? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How is life at the age of 70-80? Does one get scared of death? My mom, who is healthy at 80, has dreams of death. What percentage of people age 72 today will live to the age of 90? What percentage of people actually live to the age of their life expectancy? What percentage of people live into their 90s? At what age do most people die? What percentage of Americans live to be quite old (age 80 or older) and never suffer significant symptoms of dementia? What percentage of men live over the age of 60? Why do people live to different age? Do people that live beyond the age of 80 years old expected to live that long? What percentage of men live past 90? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact                 October 2012           ODDS OF LIVING TO RETIREMENT AT AGE 65       Of 1,000 Men...    Of 1,000 Men at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  161  84%    35  155  84%    40  148  85%    45  138  86%    50  123  88%    55  100  90%    60  62  94%    Of 1,000 Women...    Of 1,000 Women at Age  Number Who Die Before Age 65  Their Odds of Living to Retirement at Age 65    30  126  87%    35  121  88%    40  116  88%    45  109  89%    50  97  90%    55  78  92%    60  47  95%    Inadequate retirement savings can keep you from realizing your retirement dreams! Are you making effective use of your business to achieve your retirement planning goals?       MESSAGES from the Masters...      THREE KEYS TO GREATNESS  by Jim Rohn  Several
years ago I went into the studio and recorded a 56-minute video for
teenagers called "Three Keys To Greatness." Although my focus was for
teenagers, the principles I shared certainly apply to adults as well.  Recently I was asked to list these three things using one to two sentences for each.  Now for your benefit here they are again.  1) Setting Goals. I call it the view of the future. Most people, including kids, will pay
the price if they can see the promise of the future. So we need to help
our kids see a well-defined future, so they will be motivated to pay
the price today to attain the rewards of tomorrow. Goals help them do
this.  2) Personal Development. Simply making consistent investments in our self-education and
knowledge banks pays major dividends throughout our lives. I suggest
having a minimum amount of time set aside for reading books, listening
to audiocassettes, attending seminars, keeping a journal and spending
time with other successful people. Charlie Tremendous Jones says you
will be in five years the sum total of the books you read and the
people you are around.  3) Financial Planning. I call it the 70/30 plan. After receiving your paycheck or paying
yourself, simply setting aside 10% for saving, 10% for investing and
10% for giving, and over time this will guarantee financial
independence for a teenager.  If
a young person, or for that matter an adult, focused on doing these
three simple things over a long period of time I believe they will be
assured success!  To Your Success, Jim Rohn          Brought to you by:     Jeffrey N. Schweitzer, EPA, CEP, ATP   Northeast Financial Strategies Inc  667 South Street  Wrentham, MA  02093  800-560-4637    jeff@nfsnet.com    http://www.nfsnet.com About our firm: Offering Financial & Estate Planning, Investments, Insurance, Accounting, Payroll, and  Income Tax Preparation for Individuals & Small Business.    "Financial Strategies That Fit YOUR Needs!"     QUOTES from the Masters...       On Expectation       "Look for the good in every person and every situation.  You'll almost always find it."  -- Brian Tracy  "Life...It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations."  -- Richard M. DeVos  "Don't join an easy crowd; you won't grow. Go where the expectations and the demands to perform are high."  -- Jim Rohn       On Entrepreneurism       "Entrepreneurial leadership requires the ability to move quickly when opportunity presents itself."  -- Brian Tracy  "Kids ought to have two bicycles, one to ride and one to rent."  -- Jim Rohn  "The future will be owned and operated by the entrepreneurially minded."  -- Mark Victor Hansen        The
purpose of this newsletter is to provide information of general
interest to our clients, potential clients and other professionals. The
information provided is general in nature and should not be considered
complete information on any product or concept described.  For more complete information, please contact my office at the phone number above.  Published by The Virtual Assistant; © 2012 VSA, LP    We
don't want to add to your e-mail clutter! If you do not enjoy my
newsletter, just reply to this e-mail and ask to be removed or call my
office.  Thanks!                          Turn autoplay off  Turn autoplay on    Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off      Jump to content [s]  Jump to comments [c]  Jump to site navigation [0]  Jump to search [4]  Terms and conditions [8]      Edition:  UK  US  AU     About us    About us,    Contact us    Press office    Guardian Print Centre    Guardian readers' editor    Observer readers' editor    Terms of service    Privacy policy    Advertising guide    Digital archive    Digital edition    Guardian Weekly    Buy Guardian and Observer photos        Today's paper    Main section    G2 features    Comment and debate    Editorials, letters and corrections    Obituaries    Other lives    Sport    Film & music    Subscribe       Subscribe              Home    UK    World    Sport    Football    Opinion    Culture    Economy    Lifestyle    Fashion    Environment    Tech    Travel    Money         News      Datablog                        Next    Previous    Blog home     How likely are you to live to 100? Get the full data  More than a quarter of children aged 16 will see their 100th birthdays. Find out how likely you are to get there • Get the data         A girl born this year has a one-in-three chance of reaching their 100th birthday, while boys have a one-in-four chance, the Office for National Statistics figures show. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian    We're all living longer . But how many of us will live to 100?  The Department for Work and Pensions have released a report detailing life expectancy in 2011 and comparing the generations at 20, 50 and 80 years old. The data sees 20-year-olds three times more likely to reach 100 than their grandparents, and twice as likely as their parents .  While a girl born in 2011 has a one-in-three chance of living to their 100th birthday, a boy has a one-in-four chance. However, compared to a baby born in 1931, the children of 2011 are almost eight times more likely to become centenarians.  The predictions by the Office for National Statistics estimate the likelihood of reaching 100 by looking either at your age now or the year of your birth. They show that by 2066, there will be more than half a million people in the UK aged 100 or over.  The phenomenon of Britain's ageing  population will impact on everything from pensions to the national health service. Pensions Minister Steve Webb says:   the dramatic speed at which life expectancy is changing means that we need to radically rethink our perceptions about our later lives … We simply can't look to our grandparents' experience of retirement as a model for our own. We will live longer and we will have to save more    Roll over line for numbers    So, what does it mean? Key figures from the data, show:   • The average chance of a 20-year-old to reach 100 is 23%; however women aged 20 have a 26.6% chance - heavily contrasting with the male 19.5% • Those aged 50 in 2011 have a 14.2% chance of seeing the year 2061 (17% of women, 11.4% of men) • A further ten years reduces your chances by 2.2%, and by the time they reach 70 the average Briton will be at 10.4% • Those aged 83-84 now have lowest likelihood of reaching 100 of any age group - 7.2%. Beyond this percentages begin to look up, with a 99-year-old having a 67.% chance of making it through to their 100th birthday   We've extracted the data from the DWP for you to play with. What can you do with it?  Data summary     Likelihood of reaching 100  Click heading to sort table. Download this - and more - data      Year of birth    Male, %    Female, %    BOTH SEXES, %          SOURCE: DWP         1912  0.3  1.1  0.7    1913  0.3  1.1  0.7    1914  0.3  1.2  0.7    1915  0.3  1.2  0.8    1916  0.4  1.3  0.8    1917  0.4  1.4  0.9    1918  0.5  1.6  1.1    1919  0.7  1.9  1.3    1920  0.6  1.8  1.2    1921  0.7  2.1  1.4    1922  0.8  2.3  1.6    1923  1  2.5  1.7    1924  1.1  2.7  1.9    1925  1.2  3  2.1    1926  1.4  3.2  2.3    1927  1.6  3.5  2.5    1928  1.7  3.8  2.8    1929  2  4.2  3.1    1930  2.3  4.6  3.4    1931  2.5  5.1  3.8    1932  2.9  5.6  4.2    1933  3.2  6.2  4.7    1934  3.6  6.8  5.2    1935  4  7.3  5.6    1936  4.3  7.9  6.1    1937  4.6  8.4  6.5    1938  5  8.9  6.9    1939  5.2  9.3  7.2    1940  5.4  9.6  7.5    1941  5.7  9.9  7.8    1942  6  10.3  8.1    1943  6.2  10.6  8.4    1944  6.4  10.9  8.6    1945  6.6  11.1  8.9    1946  6.9  11.5  9.2    1947  7.1  11.8  9.5    1948  7.4  12.2  9.8    1949  7.7  12.5  10.1    1950  7.9  12.8  10.4    1951  8.2  13.1  10.6    1952  8.4  13.5  10.9    1953  8.6  13.7  11.2    1954  8.8  14  11.4    1955  9.1  14.4  11.7    1956  9.3  14.7  12    1957  9.5  14.9  12.2    1958  9.8  15.2  12.5    1959  10  15.6  12.8    1960  10.2  15.9  13.1    1961  10.5  16.2  13.3    1962  10.7  16.5  13.6    1963  11  16.8  13.9    1964  11.2  17.1  14.2    1965  11.5  17.4  14.5    1966  11.8  17.7  14.7    1967  12  18.1  15    1968  12.3  18.4  15.3    1969  12.5  18.7  15.6    1970  12.8  19  15.9    1971  13.1  19.4  16.2    1972  13.3  19.7  16.5    1973  13.6  20  16.8    1974  13.9  20.4  17.1    1975  14.2  20.7  17.4    1976  14.5  21.1  17.8    1977  14.8  21.4  18.1    1978  15.1  21.7  18.4    1979  15.4  22.1  18.7    1980  15.7  22.4  19.1    1981  16  22.8  19.4    1982  16.3  23.1  19.7    1983  16.6  23.5  20.1    1984  17  23.8  20.4    1985  17.3  24.2  20.7    1986  17.6  24.5  21.1    1987  17.9  24.9  21.4    1988  18.2  25.3  21.7    1989  18.5  25.6  22.1    1990  18.9  26  22.4    1991  19.2  26.4  22.8    1992  19.5  26.7  23.1    1993  19.9  27.1  23.5    1994  20.2  27.5  23.8    1995  20.5  27.8  24.2    1996  20.9  28.2  24.5    1997  21.2  28.5  24.9    1998  21.5  28.9  25.2    1999  21.9  29.3  25.6    2000  22.2  29.6  25.9    2001  22.6  30  26.3    2002  22.9  30.4  26.6    2003  23.2  30.7  27    2004  23.6  31.1  27.3    2005  23.9  31.5  27.7    2006  24.3  31.8  28.1    2007  24.6  32.2  28.4    2008  25  32.6  28.8    2009  25.3  32.9  29.1    2010  25.7  33.3  29.5    2011  26  33.7  29.9         Download the data   • DATA: download the full spreadsheet  More open data  Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian  World government data  • Search the world's government data with our gateway  Development and aid data  • Search the world's global development data with our gateway  Can you do something with this data?  • Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group • Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk  • Get the A-Z of data • More at the Datastore directory • Follow us on Twitter • Like us on Facebook       Next    Previous    Blog home                   We have switched off comments on this old version of the site. To comment on crosswords, please switch over to the new version to comment . Read more...         License/buy our content  |  Privacy policy  |  Terms & conditions  |  Advertising guide  |  Accessibility  |  A-Z index  |  Inside the Guardian blog  |  About us  |  Work for us  |  Join our dating site today     © 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.                   