           EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Expert Advice Home   EXPERT ADVICE           Getting Pregnant      TOPICS   How to Get Pregnant  Tips for Getting Pregnant  Before Getting Pregnant  Family Planning  Ovulation Symptoms  Infertility & Trouble Conceiving  • All Getting Pregnant Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Ovulation Calculator  Due Date Calculator  Detecting Ovulation  Am I Pregnant?  Baby Costs Calculator  Age & Fertility  Grief & Loss     POPULAR   Getting Pregnant Fast  Pregnancy Symptoms  Pregnancy Tests  Chart Your Cycle  Coping with Fertility Problems  Timing Sex for Pregnancy  What to Avoid When Trying            How to get pregnant: A primer    Conceiving seems like it should be a natural, easy process. But there are key things to know before you start trying.   How to get pregnant fast  What to avoid when you’re trying  When to see a fertility specialist            Pregnancy      TOPICS   First Trimester  Second Trimester  Third Trimester  Prenatal Care & Tests  Symptoms & Discomforts  Giving Birth  • All Pregnancy Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Due Date Calculator  Ultimate Pregnancy To-Do List  Pregnancy Safety  Pregnancy Weight Calculator  Baby Registry Checklist  Baby Names  Pregnancy Calendar     POPULAR   Newly Pregnant  Pregnancy Week by Week  Top Baby Names  Nutrition & Weight  Sleep & Dreams  Fitness  Zika in Pregnancy            The ultimate pregnancy to-do list    Follow our trimester-by-trimester guide to make your nine-month journey as safe and enjoyable as possible.   Sleep on your side  Visit your dental hygienist  Is it safe to have sex?            Baby      TOPICS   Your Newborn  Baby Development  Baby Sleep  Breastfeeding  Formula Feeding  Solids & Finger Foods  • All Baby Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Sleep & Feeding Schedules  Best Baby Products  Child Costs Calculator  Browse Baby Products  Preemie Babies  Postpartum Depression  Autism     POPULAR   Crying & Colic  Bathing & Body Care  Diapering & Bottom Care  Childcare  Activities & Play  Is It Normal?  Twins & Multiples            Dry those tears    It's not always easy to soothe a crying baby. We can help you figure out what to do when your baby wails.   12 reasons babies cry  Is all this crying normal?  How to cope with colic            Toddler      TOPICS   Toddler Development  Feeding & Nutrition  Behavior  Sleep & Naps  Milestones  Play & Toys  • All Toddler Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Toddler Feeding Guide  Child Growth Chart  Discipline  Childcare  Language & Cognitive Development  Social & Emotional Development  Toddler Calendar     POPULAR   Potty Training  Tantrums  Is It Normal?  Bathing & Body Care  Feeding Problems & Concerns  Toddler Fears  Toddler Products            Major toddler milestones    Toddlers gain skills at incredible speed. See what’s around the corner for your busy little learner.   Walking and running  Talking and using sentences  Cutting back on naps            Preschooler      TOPICS   Behavior  Development  Eating & Nutrition  Activities & Play  Potty Training  Siblings  • All Preschooler Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Picky Eaters  Is It Normal?  Discipline Strategies  Child Height Predictor  Playdates  Learning  Sports & Exercise     POPULAR   Preschool Basics  Parenting Strategies  Is Your Child Gifted?  Milestones  Entertainment  Sleep Problems & Concerns  Teaching Manners            Potty training primer    Time to say goodbye to diapers? We've got you covered with expert and parent-tested potty training tips.   10 steps to a toilet-trained tot  Solutions to potty training problems  Potty training in three days!            Big Kid      TOPICS   Behavior  Development  Activities & Play  Siblings  Milestones  Discipline  • All Big Kid Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Picky Eaters  Speech Problems  Playdate Primer  Is It Normal?  Learning  Raising Girls, Raising Boys  Talking About Difficult Subjects     POPULAR   Is Your Child Gifted?  Child Height Predictor  School  Entertainment  Parenting Strategies  Sleep Problems & Concerns  Bed-Wetting            Pleasing picky eaters    When your child's a picky eater, every meal can seem like a battle. Learn how to win the food wars!   10 ways to please a picky eater  How to avoid mealtime meltdowns  7 superfoods to boost any kid's diet            Health      TOPICS   Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu  Allergies & Asthma  Well-Baby Checkups  Vaccines & Immunizations  Illnesses & Conditions  Teething & Tooth Care  • All Health Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Symptom Checker  Vaccine Scheduler  Giving Medicine  Vomiting & Stomach Problems  Injuries & Accidents  Childproofing  Car Seat Safety     POPULAR   Food Allergies  Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions  Colds  Age-by-age Medicine Guide  Fever in Babies  SIDS  First Aid            Dealing with doctor visits    Getting weighed, saying "ahhh" and sometimes "ouch!" – checkups and immunizations are a part of life for kids of all ages.   Well-baby visits  Well-child visits  Doctor visits and shots made easier            Video      TOPICS   Pregnancy videos  Labor and birth videos  Baby videos  Toddler videos  Preschooler videos  Big kid videos  Live birth videos     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Childbirth class  Baby sleep: Bedtime routines  Pregnancy constipation  Pregnancy sleep  Baby massage  Breastfeeding: 5 lessons  Mom Confidential     POPULAR   Pregnancy body changes  Breast changes during pregnancy  My 6-word birth story  Live birth: Epidural  How to swaddle a baby  How to hold a crying baby  3 ways to burp your baby            Baby sleep tips: Birth to 3 months   Establishing good sleep habits can stop baby sleep problems before they start.   Baby sleep tips: 3 to 9 months  Baby sleep tips: 9 to 12 months  Baby sleep: Tips for Napping             Products & Gear       TOPICS   Maternity Clothes  Strollers  Car Seats  Breastfeeding & Breast Pumps  Essential Pregnancy Products  Baby Clothes and Blankets  On the Go Products     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Baby Registry Checklist  Baby First-year Must-haves  Nursery Furniture 101  Potty Training Tools & Tips  Childproofing Basics  Find the Right Baby Bathtub  How to Buy a Highchair     POPULAR   Moms' Picks  Best Shower Gifts  Shopping by Trimester  Video: How to Choose a Car Seat  How to Choose a Crib  Best Diaper Bags  Browse Toddler Beds            Moms' Picks 2018    See the products that stood out from the rest as voted on by 87,000 picky parents.  Moms' Picks: Best strollers  Moms' Picks: Best convertible car seats  Moms' Picks: Best baby bottles            For You      TOPICS   Just for Moms  Just for Dads  Diet & Nutrition  Fitness  Emotional Wellness  House & Home  • All You & Your Family Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Recovering From Childbirth  Sleep Deprivation  Sex & Contraception  Family Finances  Relationships  Having Another Baby  Family Travel     POPULAR   Life as a Mom  Meal Planning & Recipes  Birthdays  Holidays & Celebrations  Stay-at-Home Parents  Working Parents  Coping With Two or More            Challenges of new parenthood    Your child may be the apple of your eye, but you also have to take care of yourself.   Coping with sleep deprivation  Top expenses and how to save  Making time for your partner                 Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home      Getting Pregnant      Fertility Solutions   /    Fertility Treatments         Preparing to Conceive      Before You Try Getting Pregnant        Trying to Conceive      Tips for Getting Pregnant      Could I Be Pregnant?        Having Trouble Conceiving      Fertility Solutions    Identifying a Fertility Problem     Fertility Treatments    Adoption      Emotional Health & Infertility         All Getting Pregnant topics                                 advertisement              Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)     IN THIS ARTICLE     Is IVF for me?  How does IVF work?  How long will IVF take?  What’s the success rate for IVF?  What are the pros of IVF?  What are the cons of IVF?  What does IVF cost? En español     By Karisa Ding   Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board   Last updated: March 2016     In vitro fertilization (IVF) is a fertility treatment in which sperm and eggs are combined in a laboratory. The resulting embryos are assessed for quality, and one or more are placed in the uterus through the cervix. IVF is by far the most commonly used high-tech fertility treatment, accounting for more than 99 percent of assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedures. About 1.5 percent of babies born in the United States are conceived using ART.  Is IVF for me? IVF can help you get pregnant if you have problems with ovulation or egg quality, blocked fallopian tubes, or endometriosis ; if your partner has problems with sperm count or motility ; or if you're using donor eggs to become pregnant. IVF may also be an option if your doctor can't pinpoint the problem (this is called "unexplained infertility") or if other treatments have been unsuccessful.  How does IVF work? The timeline for IVF treatment usually goes something like this: Ovary stimulation. For eight to 14 days near the beginning of your menstrual cycle, you take a gonadotropin , a type of fertility drug that stimulates your ovaries to develop multiple mature eggs for fertilization (instead of just one). You also need to take a synthetic hormone like leuprolide or cetrorelix to keep your body from releasing the eggs too early. Follicle development. While taking these medications, you visit your doctor's office or clinic every two to three days to have your blood hormone levels checked and ultrasound measurements of your ovaries done. This allows your healthcare provider to monitor development of the follicles – the fluid-filled sacs where eggs mature. The trigger shot. When the follicles are ready, you get a "trigger shot," an injection that causes the eggs to mature fully and become capable of being fertilized. About 36 hours after your trigger shot, your eggs are ready to be retrieved. Gathering the eggs. Your doctor gives you an anesthetic and inserts an ultrasound probe through your vagina to look at your ovaries and identify the follicles. A thin needle is then inserted through the vaginal wall to remove the eggs from the follicles. Eight to 15 eggs are usually retrieved. You may have some cramping and spotting for a few days afterward, but most women feel better in a day or two. Fertilization. An embryologist (a scientist who specializes in eggs, sperm, and embryos) will examine your eggs before combining them with your partner's sperm and incubating them overnight. Fertilization usually happens during this time, but eggs that aren't normal may not be fertilized. (If sperm quality is poor, or if fertilization was unsuccessful during previous IVF cycles, your doctor may recommend using a technique called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) . With ICSI, a single sperm is injected directly into each mature egg.) Developing embryos. Three days after the egg retrieval, some of the eggs that were successfully fertilized become six- to 10-celled embryos. By the fifth day, some of these embryos will become blastocysts with a fluid-filled cavity and tissues that are beginning to separate into placenta and baby. Embryo selection. The embryologist selects the most viable embryo or embryos to place in your uterus three to five days after the egg retrieval. Extra embryos, if there are any, may be frozen and used for future IVF cycles. Planting the embryos. Depending on your age and diagnosis, your doctor places between one and five embryos in your uterus by inserting a thin tube (a catheter) through your cervix. You might feel some mild cramping, but you won't need anesthesia. Successful implantation. If the treatment works, an embryo implants in your uterine wall and continues to grow into a baby. Keep in mind that if more than one embryo is transferred, your chance of pregnancy is higher, but so are the odds of having a multiple pregnancy – about 20 percent of babies born through IVF are twins, triplets, or more . You can take a pregnancy test about two weeks after the embryos are placed in your uterus. How do home pregnancy tests work? Pregnancy tests can bring exciting news. Find out how they work, how to take one, and what factors could lead to seeing a false positive or negative. See all videos  How long will IVF take? It takes about four to six weeks to complete one cycle of IVF. You have to wait a few weeks for your eggs to mature. Then you and your partner spend about half a day at your doctor's office or clinic having your eggs retrieved and fertilized. You have to go back again three to five days later to have the embryos inserted into your uterus, but you'll be able to go home that same day.  What’s the success rate for IVF? The outcomes of IVF vary dramatically, depending on each couple's reasons for infertility and their ages. Younger women usually have healthier eggs and higher success rates. Based on national data, the percentage of IVF cycles resulting in a live birth (in which one or more babies are born) is about: 40 percent for women age 34 and under 31 percent for women age 35 to 37 21 percent for women age 38 to 40 11 percent for women age 41 to 42 5 percent for women age 43 and over  What are the pros of IVF? Successful track record. IVF is the oldest assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedure on the block – it's been around since 1978. IVF has been used long enough for researchers to have done extended health studies on the children conceived using this method. So far, no medical problems have been directly linked to the procedure. No link to cancer. Recent studies have shown no connection between ovulation-inducing fertility drugs and cancer. Early studies suggested that exposure to fertility drugs might lead to a higher risk of ovarian cancer or other cancers of the female reproductive system. Improved techniques. Researchers continue to refine and improve IVF procedures. For example, advances in embryo cryopreservation (freezing) have resulted in IVF pregnancy rates that are about the same for frozen and fresh embryos.  What are the cons of IVF? Costly and time-consuming. Fertilizing your eggs outside of your body requires costly lab work and medications. Monitoring your response to fertility drugs also requires a lot of time, with frequent trips to the doctor's office for blood tests and ultrasounds. Odds of multiples. Because more than one embryo may be placed in your uterus, your chance of having twins or more is about 20 percent. Though many couples consider this a blessing, multiple fetuses increase your risk of miscarriage and other complications , such as preterm labor. Some doctors will advise you to consider selective reduction if three or more embryos implant successfully. This is a serious decision with major emotional and psychological consequences. IVF researchers are working on techniques to prevent multiple fetuses. Risk of ectopic pregnancy. Women who have difficulty getting pregnant have an increased risk for ectopic pregnancy , regardless of how they conceive. And all assisted reproductive technology treatments, including IVF, also make an ectopic pregnancy more likely. An ectopic pregnancy occurs when an embryo implants in a fallopian tube or the abdominal cavity rather than in the uterus. It's treated with the medication methotrexate or by surgically removing the embryo to prevent it from severely injuring the mother by continuing to grow. Risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS can happen when women respond too well to fertility drugs and produce too many eggs. About 10 to 20 percent of women who take gonadotropins develop a mild form of OHSS, a condition marked by weight gain and a full, bloated feeling. Some also have shortness of breath, dizziness, pelvic pain, nausea, and vomiting. If you have OHSS, your ovaries swell to several times the normal size and produce fluid that accumulates in your abdominal cavity. Normally this resolves itself with careful monitoring by a physician and bed rest. But in rare cases it's life threatening, and you may have to be hospitalized for more intensive monitoring or treatment. Potential complications for baby. Babies conceived with high-tech treatments for infertility such as IVF may be more likely to be born prematurely or have a low birth weight. They may also have a slightly higher risk of birth defects. But experts aren't sure whether that's from the factors that cause infertility (such as age) or the treatments. It may not work. Up to 20 percent of IVF cycles may be cancelled before eggs are retrieved, usually because not enough follicles developed. Reducing the risk of OHSS is another reason for cancellation.  What does IVF cost? In the United States, expect to spend an average of $12,400 for one cycle of IVF if you're using your own eggs and your partner's sperm. The amount you'll pay depends on how much medicine you need, where you live, and whether your state mandates insurance coverage for fertility treatments. If your insurance doesn't cover them, you'll probably have to pay the entire cost up front. Learn more about handling the cost of fertility treatment .     Show sources       Hide sources       SART. 2013. Fertility data table. Society for Reproductive Medicine. https://www.sartcorsonline.com/rptCSR_PublicMultYear.aspx [Accessed 2016] CDC. 2014. ART cycles using donor eggs. U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/art/ART2011/sect4_fig38-42.htm#f41 [Accessed 2015] CDC. 2015. ART success rates. U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/art/artdata/index.html [Accessed 2015] UpToDate. 2016. Assisted reproductive technologies. [Accessed 2015]          page continues below             Discuss this topic   Comments (53)                              advertisement       Featured video     How can I get pregnant quickly?   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos                                  You might also like                  Fertility treatment: Getting started   Find out about treatment options for fertility problems, including side effects and success rates.                Fertility treatment: Intrauterine insemination (IUI)   Is artificial insemination for you? What are the pluses and minuses, and what should you expect?                Fertility treatment: Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)   Find out if this breakthrough treatment for male fertility problems could help you or your partner.                    Fertility drug: Gonadotropins   What gonadotropins are, the part these drugs play in fertility treatment, and how much this treatment usually costs                Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Assisted reproductive technologies (ART)   In the 1970s, British doctors began removing eggs from women who had trouble conceiving and fertilized the eggs in a laboratory...                    Fertility Solutions   Having trouble getting pregnant can be frustrating. Get the scoop on identifying fertility problems, treatment options, and ado...                Endometriosis   Find out what endometriosis is, why some women have, how to recognize endometriosis if you do have it, how it's treated, and ho...                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                    Fertility treatment: Donor eggs and embryos   Read about how donor eggs or embryos can help you carry and deliver a baby.                          Fertility treatment: Getting started   Find out about treatment options for fertility problems, including side effects and success rates.                Fertility treatment: Intrauterine insemination (IUI)   Is artificial insemination for you? What are the pluses and minuses, and what should you expect?                    Fertility treatment: Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)   Find out if this breakthrough treatment for male fertility problems could help you or your partner.                Fertility drug: Gonadotropins   What gonadotropins are, the part these drugs play in fertility treatment, and how much this treatment usually costs                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Assisted reproductive technologies (ART)   In the 1970s, British doctors began removing eggs from women who had trouble conceiving and fertilized the eggs in a laboratory...                    Fertility Solutions   Having trouble getting pregnant can be frustrating. Get the scoop on identifying fertility problems, treatment options, and ado...                Endometriosis   Find out what endometriosis is, why some women have, how to recognize endometriosis if you do have it, how it's treated, and ho...                    Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                Fertility treatment: Donor eggs and embryos   Read about how donor eggs or embryos can help you carry and deliver a baby.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons       Editor's picks            How to know when you're ovulating               Top signs of pregnancy               How long it takes to get pregnant             advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                                              847.662.1818     nurse@advancedfertility.com          ☰  ˟     HOME  TESTIMONIALS  ABOUT US  CONTACT US  BECOME A PATIENT  BLOG     Home  Testimonials  About us  Contact us  Become a Patient  Blog    Request More Info                 SUCCESS RATES never mattered more   What sets us apart from other fertility clinics?     (age under 35)  See more details on SART website     Some reasons we are so successful:   We give personalized attention to every patient, not possible in "super-sized" clinics  Tight quality control gives us consistently higher IVF success rates - so our patients are more likely to have babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              See more details on SART website         Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago                Home       Menu  ▼        IVF Success Rates    Our IVF Success Rates  Blastocyst Success Rates  Links to CDC & SART IVF Success Rate Reports       IVF Pricing Plans    IVF Cost Overview  Single Cycle IVF Costs  Multiple Cycle & Refund  Multiple Cycle No Refund       IVF Overview    IVF Procedures    ICSI for Sperm Issues    Day 5 Blast Transfer    Embryo Pictures    Embryo Grading    Day 3 Embryo Quality  Day 5 Embryo Quality      Egg Donation    Egg Donation Overview  Donor Success Rates  Our Egg Donors  Frozen Donor Eggs  Egg Donation Pricing      General Infertility    Causes of Infertility    Female Age and Fertility  Male Infertility  Ovulation Problems  PCOS: Polycystic Ovaries  Endometriosis  Tubal Infertility  Uterine Problems  Unexplained Infertility      Infertility Testing    Basic Infertility Workup  Dye Test - HSG  Ovarian Reserve Tests  Sperm Tests      Infertility Treatment    Intrauterine Insemination  In Vitro Fertilization  Treating Ovulation  Male Fertility Treatment      About Us    Richard Sherbahn, MD  Michelle Catenacci, MD  Gary Jones, MD  Chicago Office  Gurnee Office  Crystal Lake Office  Become a Patient  Contact Us      Testimonials         Infertility Treatment & In Vitro Fertilization - IVF - Insurance Coverage Issues  Health insurance coverage for infertility and IVF treatments overview  Medical insurance coverage for infertility treatment and for IVF, in vitro fertilization can be straightforward or complicated. This is an effort to explain some of the issues regarding health insurance coverage for infertility testing and treatment.  Because our fertility clinic is in northern Illinois and close to Wisconsin - insurance coverage for IVF and infertility in Illinois and Wisconsin will be specifically addressed. Insurance coverage for infertility , artificial inseminations and in vitro fertilization varies greatly. Some insurance plans will cover no infertility services, some pay for all of it and many are somewhere in between.  About 15 states have some type of mandate for infertility insurance coverage - so couples in those states will be likely to get some help with payment for their fertility services from their health insurance plan.  In states without any infertility coverage mandate, most insurance plans do not help much with payment for fertility and IVF services. IVF insurance coverage is less common than coverage for fertility services other than IVF. This is because IVF costs more than other infertility testing and treatments.  Insurance plans in which we are currently "participating providers"  We can see patients with any PPO plan. When a doctor is "out of network" it does not mean that the insurance company will not pay for the services. If we are not "in network" with the plan, then the patient will usually have a higher amount of "coinsurance" (what they are expected to pay) as compared to if they went to a doctor that is "in network".  We have many patients that see us "out of network". They have decided to come to us "out of network" (and pay more out-of-pocket) because of our superior success rates, our personalized care, recommendations from friends or their doctor, or for other reasons.  We are "in network" with many insurance plans as shown here.     We are currently "in network" with these insurance plans    Aetna   PPO HMO POS    Blue Choice (also Blue Options)  PPO PPO (BCS)    Blue Cross   PPO    Cigna   PPO HMO POS      Humana   PPO HMO POS    Optum Health (formerly  United Resources Network)  All plans    United Healthcare   PPO HMO POS       Infertility testing and health insurance coverage  Health insurance plans will commonly (but not always) pay for services related to testing for infertility . However, many plans say that once the diagnosis has been established that they will no longer pay for fertility related services. This is likely due to the fact that covering diagnostic testing does not cost them very much.  There are potential gray areas with coverage for tests. For example, a woman is trying to get pregnant and has heavy periods and very bad menstrual cramps. She has a hysteroscopy at the fertility clinic to investigate the situation. Regardless of the findings of the test, the insurance company might pay for it in full - or reject payment saying that they don't cover infertility . Was the test done for her bleeding and pain, or was it done for infertility? What if it was done for all of those reasons? It can be a little complicated and confusing at times.  Infertility treatment and insurance  Treatment for infertility is covered by insurance much less commonly than testing is. Outside of a state mandated situation (see below), when there is coverage for infertility treatment, it is fairly common to exclude IVF or to have a lifetime maximum benefit.  We commonly see health insurance plans that have between $10,000 and $25,000 as a lifetime max. This caps the potential costs for the insurance carrier. In other cases, insurance will cover testing and treatment up to and including intrauterine inseminations - but they will not cover IVF - in vitro fertilization services. Sometimes the "monitoring" of the IVF ovarian stimulation (blood and ultrasound tests) are covered, but all of the (more expensive) IVF codes are not covered.  State insurance mandates for infertility and IVF services  There are currently 15 states that have infertility mandates of some kind. The mandates are very different in terms of what is covered - how many IVF cycles, etc. Some of the mandates are very comprehensive and others much less so. Details of mandates other than Illinois are not discussed here.        States with some kind of infertility coverage mandate    Arkansas  Illinois  Montana  Rhode Island    California  Louisiana  New Jersey  Texas    Connecticut  Maryland  New York  West Virginia    Hawaii  Massachusetts  Ohio       State of Illinois insurance mandate for infertility and IVF services  The state of Illinois passed the Family Building Act in 1991. In short, it requires group health insurance plans that cover more than 25 employees to cover diagnosis and treatment of infertility up to and including 4 IVF attempts (egg retrieval procedures).     The text below is from the IL Department of 
Financial and Professional Regulation website.    Text of the Illinois Infertility Law (215 ILCS 5/356m)     Sec. 356m. Infertility coverage.     (a) No group policy of accident and health 
insurance providing coverage for more than 25 employees that provides 
pregnancy related benefits may be issued, amended, delivered, or renewed 
in this State after the effective date of this amendatory Act of 1991 
unless the policy contains coverage for the diagnosis and treatment of 
infertility including, but not limited to, in vitro fertilization, 
uterine embryo lavage, embryo transfer, artificial insemination, gamete 
intrafallopian tube transfer, zygote intrafallopian tube transfer, and 
low tubal ovum transfer.  (b) The coverage required under subsection (a) is 
subject to the following conditions:  (1) Coverage for procedures for in vitro 
fertilization, gamete intrafallopian tube transfer, or zygote 
intrafallopian tube transfer shall be required only if:  (A) The covered individual has been unable to 
attain or sustain a successful pregnancy through reasonable, less costly 
medically appropriate infertility treatments for which coverage is 
available under the policy, plan, or contract;  (B) the covered individual has not undergone 4 
completed oocyte retrievals, except that if a live birth follows a 
completed oocyte retrieval, then 2 more completed oocyte retrievals 
shall be covered; and  (C) the procedures are performed at medical 
facilities that conform to the American College of Obstetric and 
Gynecology guidelines for in vitro fertilization clinics or to the 
American Fertility Society minimal standards for programs of in vitro 
fertilization.  (2) the procedures required to be covered under 
this Section are not required to be contained in any policy or plan 
issued to or by a religious institution or organization or to or by an 
entity sponsored by a religious institution or organization that finds 
the procedures required to be covered under this Section to violate its 
religious and moral teachings and beliefs.  (c) For purpose of this Section, "infertility" 
means the inability to conceive after one year of unprotected sexual 
intercourse or the inability to sustain a successful pregnancy.  (Source: P.A. 89-669, effective 1-1-97.)     More details about the Illinois infertility and IVF insurance mandate are available - click below for a PDF document from the State of IL:  Insurance Coverage Mandate Law for Infertility Treatment in Illinois  Loopholes in the Illinois infertility insurance mandate  It might seem that a mandate should be a mandate. However, in the case of Illinois, someone has decided that the IL mandate is "somewhat optional" (my own take on the situation). It has evolved over the years since 1991 so that now (2015) there seem to be some loopholes that allow employers to offer plans without infertility coverage.  This situation exists even though the law itself has not been repealed or changed. What has changed, perhaps, is interpretation and enforcement of the existing "infertility mandate".  Common reasons we hear regarding why various plans in IL do not cover infertility services at all - or they do not live up to the full IL mandate include:   We have a self insured plan, so we don't have to cover infertility   Our company is based in ________ (fill in the blank, Germany, Arizona, etc.)   Our insurance company is based in  ________ (wherever)   It's not our fault (the employer), we don't know why that insurance company isn't covering infertility   What all of these excuses come down to is - "we don't want to pay for it, so sue us if you think that you can win". Of course they don't say that, but it's still the bottom line. People don't want to take on an expensive and possibly losing lawsuit against their employer - so they pay for their fertility services "out of pocket".  Fortunately, many employers in IL are following the mandate and offer plans that cover the mandated infertility services. However, quite a few do not cover it - or only offer some coverage that falls short of the levels spelled out in the mandate.  Over time, more states are passing mandates for infertility insurance coverage. Who knows how the situation in Illinois will evolve over time. Infertility support organizations have also been lobbying for a national infertility insurance mandate - so far without success.  In many countries in the world infertility is considered to be a disease like any other - and covered by health insurance or the socialized medical system like any other disease would be. In the US it is looked at by insurance carriers more as a social issue rather than a medical issue - and then can be added to health insurance plans as an "extra", if desired. In the end money drives it all.  State of Wisconsin infertility and IVF insurance coverage  Because our Gurnee office is close to the Wisconsin border we have many couples that come down to us for IVF treatment. Unfortunately, Wisconsin does not yet have any state mandate for infertility or IVF services to be covered. Some employers will cover it to some extent, but many provide no coverage at all.  It is fairly common for our Wisconsin patients to have some coverage for diagnostic testing, and much less common to have any coverage for treatment of infertility. About 5% of our patients from Wisconsin have insurance coverage for IVF. Hopefully, health insurance coverage for infertility and IVF in WI will become more common in the future.  Costs for fertility testing and treatments Traditional single cycle IVF Pricing Money-back Refund IVF Cost Plans Egg Donation Costs     Quick Links   Freeze some eggs to preserve your fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees  Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues / plans       CHICAGO        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C Chicago, IL  60630  Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819       GURNEE        30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001       CRYSTAL LAKE        820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C  Chicago , IL  60630   Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819    30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001    820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866    TESTIMONIALS     I am so grateful for Advanced Fertility Center. I just had my son Leland. I want to thank Dr. Catenacci and all of the nurses that helped us. Especially Ashley in the Crystal Lake office. You made this process easier by being supportive and positive. Thank you very much!     Dr. Sherban and his staff are the most amazing, compassionate, and supportive people. After almost 5 years of trying to conceive, going through numerous tests and meeting with another clinic closer to home, who told me my chances even with IVF were still very low, a good friend recommended advanced fertility center of Chicago. Best decision we ever made! We now have 2 amazing children who are now 5 and 3 years old! I cannot stress enough how amazing this staff is, they make you feel like family!     Our experience was amazing with Dr. Cantanucci and all of the nurses (especially Ashley). After ttc for 4 years and at 41 years of age, we became pregnant after 1 round of IVF, and had our beautiful boy this past October. Can't thank them enough!     2/7/15 our son was born all thanks to the assistance of Dr. Sherbahn and his staff. Everyone was so helpful and here for all our questions, worries, etc. They want this for you just as much as you want this for you! Handled with pure professionalism and care from the very start! Thank you advanced fertility!          REQUEST PROGRAM INFO  Fill out my online form .     © 2017 Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago , S.C. All Rights Reserved    Home  Become a Patient  Contact Us  Privacy Policy             QUICK LINKS  Low cost fertility screening tests  Freeze eggs to preserve fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees    Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues/plans    CONTACT   Chicago   (773) 794-1818   Gurnee   (847) 662-1818   Crystal Lake   (815) 356-1818                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Menu           What Are the Chances for IVF Success?         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Fertility Challenges       Treatment      IVF     Clomid       Causes & Concerns     Diagnosis & Testing     Coping and Moving Forward        Non-Verbal Learning Disability  Ferber Method  Baby Lung Development  Self-Hitting  Thumb Sucking  Eczema After Pregnancy        Getting Pregnant     Trying to Conceive  Signs & Symptoms  Pregnancy Tests  Challenges  Fertility Testing  Fertility Treatment   View All          Pregnancy     Weeks & Trimesters  Staying Healthy  Preparing for Baby  Complications & Concerns  Postpartum Care  Pregnancy Loss   View All          Ages & Stages     Babies  Breastfeeding  Toddlers  School-Aged Kids  Tweens  Teens   View All          Parenting     Raising Kids  Activities  Child Care  School  Bullying  Special Needs Kids   View All          Healthy Kids     Everyday Wellness  Safety & First Aid  Immunizations  Food & Nutrition  Fitness  Active Play   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Fertility Challenges    Treatment    IVF  What Are the Chances for IVF Success?     By Rachel Gurevich  | Reviewed by Anita Sadaty, MD    Updated September 27, 2017            Share       Pin       Email      Print                      IVF is no guarentee of pregnancy, but it has helped millions have children who couldn't have them otherwise.
Compassionate Eye Foundation/Three Images/Digital Vision/Getty Images       More in Fertility Challenges       Treatment      IVF     Clomid       Causes & Concerns     Diagnosis & Testing     Coping and Moving Forward        Given the high cost of IVF , you’re probably wondering if IVF will work for you. The good news is that IVF is generally successful, especially for women under age 35 and those using donor eggs. For women of all ages, the odds of a live birth are between 34 and 42 percent over three cycles. IVF success rates are available online at the website for the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART).         You can look up the national rates, or find rates for individual clinics, at these sites. The success rates are generally reported according to the woman's age since as a woman gets older, the IVF success rates go down if she's using her own eggs. According to the data collected for 2014, these are the IVF success rates nationally, when using non-donor eggs, per egg retrieval . (These are not per cycle . In other words, these are the odds of a live birth after one egg retrieval, which may mean conception with fresh eggs/embryos in the cycle of the egg retrieval ​ or after a frozen embryo transfer cycle in the following months.) For women younger than 35, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 54.4 percent. For women ages 35 to 37, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 42 percent. For women ages 38 to 40, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 26.6 percent.   For women ages 41 to 42, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 13.3 percent. For women ages 43 and up, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 3.9 percent. As you can see, IVF success goes down significantly after age 40. For this reason, most women 40 and up use donor eggs . Success rates when using donor eggs are not as dependent on the woman's age.         The percentage of live births per cycle when using donor eggs is 53.5 percent with fresh embryos. The percentage of live births per cycle when using donor eggs is 38.5 percent when using frozen embryos . It's interesting to note that IVF success rates with donor eggs are even higher than a woman younger than 35 using her own eggs. Donor eggs offer the best chance for success. One Cycle Statistics vs Multiple Cycle Statistics Something else that's important to realize is the statistics above are for one egg retrieval. Your odds of success increase if you can do more than one IVF cycle, and it's typically recommended that you plan on it. According to at least one study, women who conceived with IVF treatment went through an average of 2.7 cycles. They found that the odds for success—for women of all ages—after three IVF cycles were between 34 and 42 percent. Practically speaking, to improve your odds, you should try for at least three IVF cycles. What about trying for more than three cycles? This particular study found that cumulative pregnancy success odds continued to improve (slightly) for up to five cycles. After that, the odds plateaued. The high cost of IVF, plus the psychological distress experienced by couples , makes multiple IVF cycles difficult.         Few couples are able or willing to go through more than two or three cycles. Getting Personal Odds for Success With IVF IVF success is dependent on a number of factors, some of which you have little control over, and many of which are specific to you personally. Some of these factors include your age, the reasons for infertility, whether or not donor eggs (or sperm) will be used, and the competency of the IVF clinic or lab. While looking at the national statistics can give you a general idea, it's not going to really tell you what your particular chances of success are. The great news is that SART has created a patient predictor tool that will give you slightly more personal odds.  It's free and easy to use. The tool assumes you have not done IVF before. You need to provide your age, height and weight, how many pregnancies you've had (this total includes any pregnancy losses), how many full-term births, your cause for infertility, and whether you plan to use your own eggs. (If you don't know your cause for infertility, you can indicate that on their tool.) Univfy has developed a tool that can give you a better idea of whether IVF will work for you personally. This tool is not free, but it considers more data than the SART predictor and can be used if you have done IVF previously. You input your personal fertility data, including diagnosis, age, weight, and previous success (or not) in fertility treatments. Their calculator will then consider your data with the research and give you personal odds of statistics. The calculation is not free but may be worth it. At the end of the day, only you can decide what odds you're comfortable with. What Univfy will give you is more accurate odds to make that decision on. IVF Success at Individual Clinics You can look up IVF success rates on individual clinics —and you should—but it's important to take some of this information with a grain of salt. For example, a clinic with excellent rates may be turning away couples who have a lower chance of success. Or, they may be transferring a higher number of embryos per treatment cycle, which is risky. It's also possible that a very small client base can show abnormally high success rates. Also, make sure you're comparing their live birth rates and not just their pregnancy rates. Pregnancy success is going to be higher than the live birth rate since it does not account for miscarriage and stillbirth. You can look up the success rates for clinics near you on the CDC's website. Sources: 2014 Assisted Reproductive Technology Fertility Clinic Success Rates Report . Center for Disease Control. Clinic Summary Report. Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. https://www.sartcorsonline.com/rptCSR_PublicMultYear.aspx?ClinicPKID=0 Stewart LM1, Holman CD, Hart R, Finn J, Mai Q, Preen DB. “ How effective is in vitro fertilization, and how can it be improved? ” Fertil Steril. 2011 Apr;95(5):1677-83. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2011.01.130. Epub 2011 Feb 12.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  What is IVF? Basics on In Vitro Fertilization Treatment           Article  What Are the Chances You'll Get Pregnant After 40?           Article  9 Things That Boost Your Odds of Getting Pregnant With Twins           Article  Egg Donor IVF: The Basics You Should Know           List  What to Expect Along the Path to Conceiving With IVF           Article  Is IUI a Successful Fertility Treatment?           Article  Could Assisted Hatching Help You Take Home a Baby After IVF?           Article  What Are Your Real Chances of Getting Pregnant After 35?                          Article  What's ICSI-IVF? And Should Everyone Really Be Doing It?           Article  Who Really Needs IVF? What Are Your Options If You Don't Want It?           Article  Elective Single Embryo Transfer (eSET): Is It for You?           Article  What It Means When Your IVF Cycle Is Delayed or Canceled           Article  Questions to Ask Before You Hire Your Fertility Doctor           Article  How Many Eggs Are Ideal With Superovulation?           Article  Should You Freeze Your Eggs to Extend Your Fertility?           Article  What a Diagnosis of Primary Ovarian Insufficiency Means for You                               Daily Parenting Advice to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy  Ages & Stages  Parenting  Healthy Kids     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                Home  Calculator  About us  Publications  Contact us     twitter    HELP US IMPROVE OUR ONLINE CALCULATOR          Using the Calculator    Entering information  For each of the nine steps, you choose the option that matches the IVF situation you have in mind. This could either be your current situation, or a hypothetical situation. For some of the steps, you will need some clinical information, such as causes of infertility or proposed medication. After the nine steps, there is a summary page that lists the choices you made, together with the calculated percentage chance of a live birth for an IVF cycle.  Re-calculating  From the summary page you can modify choices (for example - choosing a different age, or selecting donor eggs instead of own eggs, or changing the medication). Any changes in the calculated percentage will be displayed immediately.  Warnings   Using the back button or refresh button on your browser can lead to calculations being displayed that are based on choices not shown in the summary. If you think that you may have made an incorrect choice, the safest option is to return to the main page and start again. If you are on the summary page, there is a reset button that allows you to start from scratch.  You should ensure that you have made consistent choices for steps 5 through 7. For example, if this is the first IVF cycle (option 1 for step 5), then you should choose zero as the number of unsuccessful IVF attempts in the past (step 6), and you should choose one of the "no previous IVF" options for step 7.          Online Calculator    To calculate your personalised prediction of the chance of having a live birth 
with your next IVF cycle please follow the instructions on each page and select 
the correct option for you.  At the end you will see a summary page where you will be able to change your 
answers and recalculate your personalised prediction.    Step 1 of 9 - Age    Please select the woman's age:   Please Choose  -----------------  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50        Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 2 of 9 - Years trying    For how many years have you been trying to get pregnant?   Please Choose  -----------------  Less than 1 year  1 year  2 years  3 years  4 years  5 years  6 years  7 years  8 years  9 years  10 years  11 years  12 years  More than 12 years        Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 3 of 9 - Source of eggs    Are you intending to use your own eggs or donor eggs?   Please Choose  -----------------  Own eggs  Donor eggs        Go to the next step   Go to the summary page   Return to the main page  IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy  What has your doctor told you is the cause of your infertility?  This can be either:   Unknown  Low sperm count  Damaged tubes  Not ovulating regularly  Endometriosis  Cervical  Or more than one of the above causes      Step 4 of 9 - Cause    Which option applies to you?   Please Choose  -----------------  Unknown  Damaged tubes  Irregular ovulation  Endometriosis  Cervical  Low sperm count  More than one cause         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 5 of 9 - Attempts at IVF    Is this your first, second or third or more attempt at IVF?   Please Choose  -----------------  First  Second  Third or more         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 6 of 9 - Previous attempts at IVF    How many unsuccessful attempts at IVF have you had? ("Unsuccessful" means that there was no live birth, even if there was a pregnancy.)   Please Choose  -----------------  Zero  One  Two  Three  Four  Five or more         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy   Which of the following options applies to you?  Have never been pregnant  Have been pregnant without IVF, but didn't have a live birth  Have had a live birth without IVF  Have had IVF in the past, but didn't become pregnant  Have had IVF in the past, became pregnant but didn't have a live birth  Have had IVF in the past, and had a live birth       Step 7 of 9 - History    Which option applies to you?   Please Choose  -----------------  No IVF, no pregnancy  No IVF, pregnant only  No IVF, live birth  IVF, no pregnancy  IVF, pregnant only  IVF, live birth         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 8 of 9 - Medication    Which medication are you going to be using?  (Gonadotrophins are usual if you are using your own eggs and HRT is normal if you are using donor eggs.)   Please Choose  -----------------  Antioestrogen  Gonadotrophin  Hormone replacement         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy     Step 9 of 9 - ICSI    Has your doctor recommended Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI)? This is normally used if you have a low sperm count or poor sperm motility.   Please Choose  -----------------  No  Yes        Go to the summary page   Return to the main page  IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy    IVFpredict.com Information Summary    Woman's age:   Please Choose  -----------------  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50     Trying for:   Please Choose  -----------------  Less than 1 year  1 year  2 years  3 years  4 years  5 years  6 years  7 years  8 years  9 years  10 years  11 years  12 years  More than 12 years    Own or donor eggs?   Please Choose  -----------------  Own eggs  Donor eggs    Cause:   Please Choose  -----------------  Unknown  Damaged tubes  Irregular ovulation  Endometriosis  Cervical  Low sperm count  More than one cause    IVF attempts:   Please Choose  -----------------  First  Second  Third or more    Unsuccessful IVF attempts:   Please Choose  -----------------  Zero  One  Two  Three  Four  Five or more    Pregnancy history:   Please Choose  -----------------  No IVF, no pregnancy  No IVF, pregnant only  No IVF, live birth  IVF, no pregnancy  IVF, pregnant only  IVF, live birth    Medication:   Please Choose  -----------------  Antioestrogen  Gonadotrophin  Hormone replacement    Will ICSI be used?   Please Choose  -----------------  No  Yes        Your chance of a live birth per IVF attempt is:    text here         Return to the main page   Please note: using the refresh and back buttons in your browser may result in calculations being performed based on choices that aren't currently displayed.  If you think you may have made an incorrect choice, please either use the reset button, or return to the main page and start making your choices again.   IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy        IVFpredict© 2011 - 2013 | Privacy policy                                        847.662.1818     nurse@advancedfertility.com          ☰  ˟     HOME  TESTIMONIALS  ABOUT US  CONTACT US  BECOME A PATIENT  BLOG     Home  Testimonials  About us  Contact us  Become a Patient  Blog    Request More Info                 SUCCESS RATES never mattered more   What sets us apart from other fertility clinics?     (age under 35)  See more details on SART website     Some reasons we are so successful:   We give personalized attention to every patient, not possible in "super-sized" clinics  Tight quality control gives us consistently higher IVF success rates - so our patients are more likely to have babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              See more details on SART website         Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago                Home       Menu  ▼        IVF Success Rates    Our IVF Success Rates  Blastocyst Success Rates  Links to CDC & SART IVF Success Rate Reports       IVF Pricing Plans    IVF Cost Overview  Single Cycle IVF Costs  Multiple Cycle & Refund  Multiple Cycle No Refund       IVF Overview    IVF Procedures    ICSI for Sperm Issues    Day 5 Blast Transfer    Embryo Pictures    Embryo Grading    Day 3 Embryo Quality  Day 5 Embryo Quality      Egg Donation    Egg Donation Overview  Donor Success Rates  Our Egg Donors  Frozen Donor Eggs  Egg Donation Pricing      General Infertility    Causes of Infertility    Female Age and Fertility  Male Infertility  Ovulation Problems  PCOS: Polycystic Ovaries  Endometriosis  Tubal Infertility  Uterine Problems  Unexplained Infertility      Infertility Testing    Basic Infertility Workup  Dye Test - HSG  Ovarian Reserve Tests  Sperm Tests      Infertility Treatment    Intrauterine Insemination  In Vitro Fertilization  Treating Ovulation  Male Fertility Treatment      About Us    Richard Sherbahn, MD  Michelle Catenacci, MD  Gary Jones, MD  Chicago Office  Gurnee Office  Crystal Lake Office  Become a Patient  Contact Us      Testimonials        IVF and Age  - Impact of Female Aging on In Vitro Fertilization Statistics   Both egg quantity and egg quality are very much related to female age  Testing Egg Quality and Quantity  We do not have a test for egg quality . The best test of egg quality is actually the woman's age. Egg quality translates over to embryo quality - which is by far the most important factor determining if IVF works.
		
		We do have testing for egg quantity ovarian reserve  Day 3 FSH testing  AMH levels  Antral follicle counts    In Vitro Fertilization Success Rate Statistics by Female Age  We will use charts and graphs to illustrate important points about age and IVF success.  See our IVF success rates   The graphs below are from the 2014 ART Success Rates report published by the CDC, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a US government agency. The report summarizes national data from about 450 clinics and about 200,000 IVF treatments.  Links to the annual CDC IVF success rate report   This chart is US national average data on success rates per IVF cycle by female age for 2014.
  The dark blue line (triangles) shows pregnancy rates per cycle by age.
  The orange line (circles) shows live birth rates per cycle
  by age. The rate of singleton live births per cycle is shown by the light blue line.
  
  The difference between "pregnancy" rate and "live birth" rate is due to miscarriages.    The data shows the impact of advancing female age on IVF success.  We can see that the success rate curve starts dropping at about age 30  It drops faster starting at about age 35 - and then the drop is linear down to 1% live birth success rate by age 45      This chart is also from the 2014 CDC Report. The IVF live birth rates per cycle started for different age groups are circled in red. The percent of IVF cycles that made it as far as an egg retrieval, an embryo transfer and a pregnancy are also shown.    As women age the probability of reaching egg retrieval or embryo transfer drops   This is because the rate of IVF cycle cancellation increases with aging    With aging, the probability of pregnancy and live birth drops even more   This is because the rate of embryo implantation decreases with age  Decreased embryo implantation is due to embryo quality issues  The decline in embryo quality is due to increasing chromosomal abnormalities in eggs with advancing age  Chromosomal abnormalities in embryos can be screened for prior to transferring with preimplantation genetic screeniing, PGS  Miscarriage rates increase with age   Shown by the difference in "pregnancy" and "live birth" rates on this graph  Increased miscarriage rates are also due to increased rates of chromosomally abnormal embryos         US National Average  IVF Live Birth Rates and Our Program's Statistics for 2015  Our IVF success rates exceed national averages     Our success rate for IVF in 2015 (age < 35) was 58% and the national average was 41%.     Our egg donation success rate for 2015 was 83% and the national average was 50%.     Data above is from the 2015 SART Report Links to the SART and CDC Reports - check any clinic's success rates .     High quality IVF results in better embryo quality which leads to better chances for successful outcomes - at any age.      Low quality day 3 embryo  Significant cellular fragmentation is evident.     High quality day 5 blastocyst  This embryo has a high chance to implant. Blastocyst transfer can increase implantation.         More IVF embryo pictures    In this graph from the 2014 CDC Report, the orange line shows IVF success rates by age using the  woman's own eggs
			 The blue line shows success rates using donor eggs by age of the recipient woman.    The graph above shows that on the average IVF success rates using own eggs starts to drop at about 30 and drops faster in the mid 30s and early 40s. This drop is caused by decreasing egg quantity and quality.  Live births are rare at age 44 and above using the female partner's eggs.  There is no drop in success rate with age when using young donor eggs.  The age of the eggs is very important.  The age of the recipient (uterine age) has very little effect on success rates when using donor eggs.  Most donors are in their 20's - so the "egg age" is excellent with egg donation cycles.      Details of Dr. Sherbahn's research on recipient age and donor egg success rates       Available Treatment for Infertility: In Vitro Fertilization  Many infertility doctors recommend that women over about 38 that are infertile should have aggressive treatment and proceed to in vitro fertilization (IVF) relatively quickly - before all fertility potential is lost.  Most IVF centers are willing to attempt IVF using the female partner's eggs until about age 44 or 45, after which the couple would be offered egg donation as the only realistic advanced fertility treatment.   IVF centers in the US do not all use the same upper age cutoff  Some clinics do not offer IVF beyond age 42 - others will go to 46 or 47 with own eggs   Read more about age limits for in vitro fertilization       Related Articles   Age and fertility  Egg quantity and quality issues  Number of eggs and IVF success  Fertility and IVF in women after age 40  Our IVF success rates  Age, egg quality and chromosome problems in eggs  Age and miscarriage  What to do if the first IVF cycle fails  Discussion about egg donation  Available egg donors  Our egg donation success rates    A comparison of clinic success rates may not be meaningful because patient medical characteristics, treatment approaches and entrance criteria for ART may vary from clinic to clinic.    Quick Links   Freeze some eggs to preserve your fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees  Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues / plans       CHICAGO        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C Chicago, IL  60630  Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819       GURNEE        30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001       CRYSTAL LAKE        820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C  Chicago , IL  60630   Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819    30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001    820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866    TESTIMONIALS     I am so grateful for Advanced Fertility Center. I just had my son Leland. I want to thank Dr. Catenacci and all of the nurses that helped us. Especially Ashley in the Crystal Lake office. You made this process easier by being supportive and positive. Thank you very much!     Dr. Sherban and his staff are the most amazing, compassionate, and supportive people. After almost 5 years of trying to conceive, going through numerous tests and meeting with another clinic closer to home, who told me my chances even with IVF were still very low, a good friend recommended advanced fertility center of Chicago. Best decision we ever made! We now have 2 amazing children who are now 5 and 3 years old! I cannot stress enough how amazing this staff is, they make you feel like family!     Our experience was amazing with Dr. Cantanucci and all of the nurses (especially Ashley). After ttc for 4 years and at 41 years of age, we became pregnant after 1 round of IVF, and had our beautiful boy this past October. Can't thank them enough!     2/7/15 our son was born all thanks to the assistance of Dr. Sherbahn and his staff. Everyone was so helpful and here for all our questions, worries, etc. They want this for you just as much as you want this for you! Handled with pure professionalism and care from the very start! Thank you advanced fertility!          REQUEST PROGRAM INFO  Fill out my online form .     © 2017 Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago , S.C. All Rights Reserved    Home  Become a Patient  Contact Us  Privacy Policy             QUICK LINKS  Low cost fertility screening tests  Freeze eggs to preserve fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees    Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues/plans    CONTACT   Chicago   (773) 794-1818   Gurnee   (847) 662-1818   Crystal Lake   (815) 356-1818                       Menu      Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   X    Cancel  Join/Login    Close  Join Now  Log In  Subscribe  Getting Pregnant  Back Getting Pregnant  All Getting Pregnant Topics Ovulation Reproductive Age Maximizing Your Fertility Pre-Pregnancy Health Trying to Conceive Dealing With Infertility Genetics  Pregnancy  Back Pregnancy  All Pregnancy Topics Signs of Pregnancy Pregnancy Week-by-Week Giving Birth Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Symptoms Due Date Calculator Pregnancy Complications Fetal Development Gender Prediction Baby Showers  Baby Names  Back Baby Names  All Baby Names Topics Baby Girl Names Most Popular Names Names by Origin Twin Names Baby Boy Names Names by Religion Celebrity Baby Names Baby Name Quizzes  Baby  Back Baby  All Baby Topics Newborn Care Crying Baby Health Baby Development Safety Gear Breastfeeding Diapers Sleep Issues Feeding Nursery  Toddler  Back Toddler  All Toddler Topics Preschool Activities Behavior & Discipline Toddler Development Milestones Potty Training Starting School Health Safety Childcare  Big Kid  Back Big Kid  All Big Kid Topics Education Health Food & Nutrition Bullying & School Problems Child Development Safety Manners & Responsibility  Fun  Back Fun  All Fun Topics Birthdays Indoor Activities Outdoor Activities Arts & Crafts Printable Coloring Pages Kids' Entertainment Best Toys Holidays Family Vacation Ideas  Health  Back Health  All Health Topics ADD & ADHD Allergies Autism Cold & Flu Cough Down Syndrome Emergency Aid Fever Medication & Vitamins Obesity Rashes Stomach Aches Vaccines  Parenting  Back Parenting  All Parenting Topics Positive Parenting Parenting Style Celebrity Parents Family Dynamics Divorce Home Adoption Just for Mom Money Toy Recalls Stroller Recalls  Food  Back Food  All Food Topics Family Recipes Baby Food Toddler Finger Food Recipes Hints & Tips Healthy Eating Birthdays Holiday Recipes Quick & Easy Meals Food For Pregnant Women  Holiday  Back Holiday  All Holiday Topics 4th of July Halloween  Video  Shop  More  Back More Newsletters Contests ParentsIRL  Our Magazines  Back Our Magazines  Fit Pregnancy and Baby From the Latest Issue Emily Skye On Being Pregnant for the First Time: 'I Feel Like a Superhero!' 7 Soothing Cradles for Your Baby 5 Nursery Trends We Love  See More Pinterest Twitter  Parents  Subscribe to Parents From the Latest Issue 16 Tech Finds That Will Change Your Family’s Life 8 Night Time Favorite Baby Gear Boys vs Girls: How to Tailor Your Parenting Techniques  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Family Fun  Subscribe to Family Fun From the Latest Issue The 2018 FamilyFun Travel Awards Simplify Lunch: Mix-and-Match Ideas Your Kids Will Love 26 Fun (and Totally Extra) Ways to Decorate Your Dyed Easter Eggs  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Parents Latina From the Latest Issue How to Talk to Your Kids About Race 10 Best Kept Secrets from Cleaning Pros These Latina Moms Are Taking Over the Beauty Industry  See More Facebook  Ser Padres  Subscribe to Ser Padres From the Latest Issue 8 cosas que te dicen que tu hijo ya no es un bebÃ© (FOTOS) 6 mentiras que tu hijo necesita escuchar (FOTOS) GuÃ­a de disciplina online: corrige el comportamiento de tu hijo en 7 dÃ­as  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   Home Getting Pregnant Dealing With Infertility Fertility Treatments 9 Myths and Facts About Boosting IVF 9 Myths and Facts About Boosting IVF  When you're trying to conceive through in vitro fertilization (IVF) you'll probably hear plenty of ideas about what you can do to boost your chances for success. We asked our experts to separate the myths from the facts. By Kate Rope from Parents Magazine  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Text  Email  Print  1  of 11     1  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Bananastock/ Jupiter When you're investing incredible amounts of time, money, and psychological capital into an IVF cycle, you want to do everything you can to make it a success. But you don't want to take up every hour of your day and every little space in your heart with another "must-do" that could make you feel guilty if you don't do it. We explored the Internet and then polled experts to get the facts on what can actually improve your chances, what could lower your success rate, and what is nothing more than a bunch of nonsense. Keep reading to find out. 10 Ways to Boost Your Fertility Are Your Maximizing Your Fertility? Getting Pregnant at Any Age  2  of 11 Myth #1: You have no control over the success of an IVF cycle.     2  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Buff Strickland Myth #1: You have no control over the success of an IVF cycle. Our take: False The results of an IVF cycle are to a large degree based upon a thorough evaluation of the couple, and there are a number of things your doctor can do before you begin to optimize success rates, says Glenn Schattman, M.D., associate professor at the Ronald O. Perelman and Claudia Cohen Center for Reproductive Medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University in New York City. The problem is, not every doctor or fertility center completes thorough evaluations. So be sure to ask your doctor these five questions before starting any IVF cycle: Is my uterus ready? Your uterine cavity should be evaluated with an ultrasound, X-ray, or hysteroscopy to look for fibroids, scar tissue, or polyps, all of which can act like an IUD in the uterus and prevent implantation. Are my tubes clear? Fluid in your fallopian tubes reduces IVF success rates by about 50 percent, says Dr. Schattman. If fluid is present, it's necessary to either block the tubes or remove them prior to starting IVF. Do I have enough eggs? A good ovarian reserve is key for IVF success. Dr. Schattman says two tests can help doctors estimate how many eggs you will get: Blood tests given on the second or third day of your cycle can analyze the level of follicle-stimulating hormone, and an ultrasound can determine an actual follicle count. Is my husband's sperm adequate? Dr. Schattman recommends having a sperm analysis done in a lab that also does IVF. That way, the quality of the sperm can be compared with what is needed for IVF success. Are any of my health habits going to affect our chances of success? Your doctor should evaluate the medications, supplements, and herbs you're taking, along with any alcohol or recreational drug use. One more thing you can do to increase your odds of success: Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep a night. A study by Korean researchers found that women who sleep to 7 to 8 hours per night are more likely to have a successful IVF cycle than women who sleep more than 9 or less than 6 hours a night. Win Baby Gear!  3  of 11 Myth #2: Stick to bed rest after embryo transfer.     3  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Laura Doss Myth #2: Stick to bed rest after embryo transfer. Our take: False There's no need to put your life on pause after the embryo transfer. Dr. Schattman says this idea is an absolute myth. In fact, a study done in Egypt found that women who were on bed rest for 24 hours following a transfer had a lower success rate compared with those who returned to their usual routine. Another study found that even a short period of bed rest (about 10 minutes) isn't helpful either. "I tell my patients to go home, have a glass of wine and a nice meal, and return to their normal activities," says Dr. Schattman, who believes that bed rest can actually be detrimental because it prevents normal fluctuations in heart rate and blood flow. Track and Predict Your Ovulation Find the Right Ovulation Kids and Fertility Monitors for You  4  of 11 Myth #3: Stress lowers IVF success rates.     4  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Lucky Business/Shutterstock Myth #3: Stress lowers IVF success rates. Our take: Maybe so A study published in the March 2014 issue of Human Reproduction followed 401 couples who were trying to conceive. Researchers analyzed two stress biomarkers (alpha-amylase and cortisol) in women and discovered that those with high levels of alpha-amylase were twice as likely to be at risk of infertility. Based on the research, scientists believe stress can contribute to infertility, though it's not necessarily a direct cause; other factors (like low sperm count and quality) could contribute to it. "We know the number-one reason insured people drop out of IVF treatment is stress, so anything you can do to reduce stress might keep you in treatment longer and help you get pregnant," says Alice Domar, Ph.D., executive director of the Domar Center for Mind/Body Health, which specializes in helping women with infertility through complementary therapies. A more thorough study of stress and its role on IVF success is still needed. Why Infertility Happens Common Conditions of Infertility  5  of 11 Myth #4: Acupuncture helps you get pregnant.     5  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest iStock Myth #4: Acupuncture helps you get pregnant. Our take: Maybe so The theory behind undergoing acupuncture during IVF is that it increases blood flow, which may help with embryo implantation. Studies are split: Half show no benefit and half show a significant benefit. So what should you believe? Dr. Domar categorizes complementary treatments like acupuncture for infertility into "the good, the benign, and the ugly" and places acupuncture under "good," because "it's cheap, it has no side effects, and there is data to support its efficacy so there is no reason not to try it." At the very least, she says, "It can help you feel more relaxed and optimistic." Even though there isn't research to back up their efficacy, Dr. Domar also considers yoga and massage to be benign because they can also help with your mental state. "If you enjoy yoga and massage and you can afford it," she says, "go for it." If, on the other hand, adding one more appointment to a busy day will do nothing more than increase your stress level or make you feel like you are failing to do everything in your power to achieve IVF success, Dr. Grifo advises patients to just let it go. Does Acupuncture for Infertility Work?      6  of 11 6 Common Fertility Mistakes   6  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Trying to get pregnant? Follow our expert's advice to side-step potential problems to boost your chances of conception. 8 Ways to Get Pregnancy Faster Track Your Basal Body Temperature  7  of 11 Myth #5: A clown in the recovery room will help.     7  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Alexandra Grablewski Myth #5: A clown in the recovery room will help. Our take: Can't hurt! Did you hear the one about the clown who walked into the recovery room after an embryo transfer? It's not a joke. It happened in Israel, where a study of 219 women found that those who were entertained by a "medical clown" after embryo transfer were twice as likely to get pregnant as those who were not. The lead researcher wanted to test the idea that laughter can help lower stress, and although it was a small study, the researchers are hoping the results will spur other fertility clinics to try out "clown care." "If you want to have an afternoon with a clown, go for it," says Dr. Grifo. "There's no harm. You're not going to laugh your embryos out." Of course, a funny movie might be a cheaper and easier way to go. Supporting a Friend Through Infertility  8  of 11 Myth #6: Melatonin can help improve egg quality.     8  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Jason Donnelly Myth #6: Melatonin can help improve egg quality. Our take: The evidence looks good, but be careful. A very small Japanese study in 2010 investigated the idea that melatonin (yep, the same kind we sometimes use to help us fall asleep at night) may improve egg quality by reducing oxidative damage. Researchers looked at the existence of a particular chemical compound that can cause oxidative stress and potentially reduce egg quality. They found that when there were higher natural levels of melatonin present, there were lower levels of the oxidizing agent. Then they recruited 100 women who had failed an IVF cycle because of poor egg quality and gave half of them 3 milligrams of melatonin before their next IVF cycle. The results? Fifty percent of the eggs of the women who took melatonin could be successfully fertilized, compared with only 23 percent of the eggs of the women who did not take melatonin. When the eggs were transplanted, 19 percent of the women in the melatonin group became pregnant, compared with 10 percent in the control group. Further studies have confirmed the fact that melatonin may be useful in infertility treatment. A 2014 review of nine studies in the Journal of Ovarian Research believes that melatonin has the potential to be a treatment for fertility. But the research also cautions that "melatonin use in infertility treatment still lacks adequate evidence to recommend routine use." Bottom line: Talk to your doctor, and don't start taking melatonin without your doctor's knowledge or approval. Best Vitamins and Nutrients to Help Conception Win Baby Gear!  9  of 11 Myth #7: Herbal remedies can help with IVF.     9  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Photo by Devon Jarvis Myth #7: Herbal remedies can help with IVF. Our Take: False There's no data showing that herbs are safe to take while you're trying to conceive. "We have no idea how they interact with fertility drugs," says Dr. Domar. One study conducted in Denmark found that out of 800 women, those using complementary and alternative therapies (which mostly consisted of herbs) lowered their chance of pregnancy by 30 percent. Add to that the fact that many herbs come from overseas, with detectable levels of mercury and no guarantee of safety, and that some are inadvisable to take during pregnancy -- herbs are a dangerous proposition. Dr. Grifo agrees: "We don't know about herbs and what their impact is, and some of them affect blood clotting." He advises his patients not to "keep secrets from your doctor. It can have serious consequences." Fertility Boosters: Are They Safe?  10  of 11 Myth #8: Special diets can boost your chances of getting pregnant.     10  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Ariwasabi/Shutterstock Myth #8: Special diets can boost your chances of getting pregnant. Our take: False There is no evidence that any specific diet (be it eating pineapple every day or never eating gluten) will increase your chances of success. That said, all of our experts recommend following a healthy, balanced diet full of whole grains, lean protein, and fruits and vegetables to maximize your health and the health of the baby you are trying to conceive through IVF. It's also important to get enough vitamin D each day. A 2014 study of 335 women found that vitamin D deficiency was possibly related to poor IVF outcomes. Although more research is still needed, implantation and pregnancy could be less likely to occur in women with adequate vitamin D levels. Maintaining your weight within a certain normal range is also important. "You don't want to go into an IVF cycle morbidly obese, overweight, or seriously underweight," says Dr. Domar. Women with body mass indices of over 35 or under 20 do experience lower pregnancy rates. 7 Foods That Can Help You Get Pregnant  11  of 11 Myth #9: If IVF doesn't work, there is something you could have done better.     11  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Corbis Photography/Veer Myth #9: If IVF doesn't work, there is something you could have done better. Our take: False In any given cycle, the chance of IVF success varies, depending on your age and your personal health circumstances. Success rates can be as high as 41 percent, but there's not much you can do to improve that number. "Patients have to realize is that there is very little they can do that will make a difference in terms of the outcome," Dr. Grifo says. "But there is a lot they can do in terms of how they feel about the process. What they should understand is that when they are doing IVF, they are doing everything they can possibly do. They should feel really good about that." So keep on thinking positively, and ideally you'll achieve IVF success without trying out every myth you hear. All content on this Web site, including medical opinion and any other health-related information, is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual situation. Use of this site and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship. Always seek the direct advice of your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others. How to Conceive When You've Been Infertile More in Getting Pregnant      19 Celebrities Who Used Surrogates       10 Common Baby-Making Mistakes       Get Pregnant Faster: Your 7-Step Plan       20 Things All Couples Should Do Before Getting Pregnant       10 Ways He Can Have Better Baby-Making Sperm       10+ Ways to Boost Your Fertility          Shop Links        Parenting Books  Home Theater Systems  Headphones  Activity Trackers  Video Games  Women's Shoes  Humidifiers  Rugs  Tablets & E-Readers  Playroom Furniture  Laptop Computers  Shower Curtains  Desks  Bedroom Sets  Earrings  Security Cameras  Air Purifiers  Laptops  Shop More    Your Account Help Update Your Account Member Benefits Newsletter Customer Service Log in Join now! Log out   Parents.com About Us Baby Names Pregnancy Tracker Baby Development Recalls Video Sitemap   Parents Magazine Subscribe Digital Editions Gift Subscriptions Renew Subscriptions Customer Service Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Affiliate Program   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Follow Parents.com  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices      close                               Search for:        Call 1-888-990-2727  Contact ARC        Home  About Us   ARC © Services  Patient Services Team  Patient Testimonials  The ARC © Management Team  Board of Directors  Media & Press   Press  Fertility Blog    Careers  Contact Us    Professionals   ARC Telehealth  The ARC ® Referral Management System (ARMS)  ARC Employer Program    ARC Treatment Packages   The ARC ® Success Program  The ARC® Cycle Plus Programs  ARC ® Egg Freezing Package  Genetic Testing  IUI Packages  The Tubal Reversal Option  ARC ® Egg Donor Packages  Additional Treatment Options  Advantages of Multiple Cycle Treatment Package    ARC Affordable Options   ARC © Financing  The ARC ® Pharmacy Plan    Resources   Infertility Diagnosis   Female Infertility  Male Infertility    Infertility Tutorial   Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  What is Infertility?  Prevention  When is the Right Time for Treatment  Evaluation  Diagnosis  Fertility Treatments  What is IVF?  Hormonal Therapy  ARC ® Fertility Glossary    Family Building   Lesbian Couples  Gay Male Couples  Single Women  Single Men  Adoption    Become an Egg Donor  FAQs: The ARC ® Fertility Program  Fertility Articles   Fertility Overview  Infertility Treatment Costs  Women’s Health Care  Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome  Fertility Preservation  New Trends in Health    Fertility Calculators   ARC ® Fertility Calculator  The ARC ® Infertility Stress Test  ARC ® Affordability Estimator    ARC ® Fertility Videos  ARC ® Fertility Blog  Cross Border IVF  Useful Resources – Infertility Links   Educational Resources  Grants & Scholarships  Mind & Body Wellness  Professional Associations      Find a Doctor/Clinic   Spotlight: Practice of the Month  Find a Doctor/Clinic Near You  ARC ® Fertility Clinics    Contact                Probability of Success with IVF Treatments         Home » Patient Resources » Infertility Tutorial » Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  The probability of success with IVF treatments depends upon a number of factors like the age of the woman, the cause of infertility, the quality of eggs retrieved and the quality of the semen.  “The single most consistent variable affecting ovarian reserve is the woman’s age. This is because a woman is born with all the eggs she will ever have. In most women in their 20s about 2/3 of the eggs are genetically normal or balanced. However, there will be some that are genetically abnormal or unbalanced. It appears that the best eggs are ovulated first. The older a woman is, the fewer genetically balanced eggs she has left to respond to fertility drugs. This age relationship holds true even in the fertile population. At age 35 about 40-50% of eggs are chromosomally normal, at age 40 about 10-20% and then much fewer after that. Therefore, in older women fewer normal embryos are available for implantation into the uterus. Hence, healthy women over 35 are less fertile than their younger counterparts. Women 40 and over may have only a 20% live birth rate with IVF treatment using their own eggs, even though several embryos are replaced into the uterus.” Read more… – Gail F. Whitman-Elia, MD, MPH, HCLD  The national averages (2012) show the following probabilities:     Female age  Live birth rate per retrieval    < 35  40.7%    35-37  31.3%    38-40  22.2%    41-42  11.8%     The success rate for having a baby depends a great deal upon the type of treatment e.g. IVF treatment or donor egg etc.  You will see in the table below that, after a certain age, the probability of successfully having a baby increases considerably with a donor.     Treatment type  Live birth per transfer    Fresh transfer  56.6%    Frozen/thaw transfer  37.2%     For more information on success probabilities please view results from Society for Assisted Reproductive Technologies (SART) .  Want to Predict Whether IVF Might Work for You, and What it Costs? To Calculate Your Success Rate and Affordability Log On…       Contact ARC for a Fertility Specialist      Quick Links Contact Us  Find Local ARC Fertility Doctor  Patient Resources  Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy     Contact Information  Advanced Reproductive Care, Inc.   20195 Stevens Creek Boulevard, Suite 100  Cupertino , CA  95014   ARC Toll Free: 1-888-990-2727              ARC Affiliates www.reproductivefacts.org  www.fertilitytool.com           © 2018 Advanced Reproductive Care. All Rights Reserved.  Call ARC ® Patient Services at: 1-888-990-2727            MENU     Home  About Us   ARC © Services  Patient Services Team  Patient Testimonials  The ARC © Management Team  Board of Directors  Media & Press   Press  Fertility Blog    Careers  Contact Us    Professionals   ARC Telehealth  The ARC ® Referral Management System (ARMS)  ARC Employer Program    ARC Treatment Packages   The ARC ® Success Program  The ARC® Cycle Plus Programs  ARC ® Egg Freezing Package  Genetic Testing  IUI Packages  The Tubal Reversal Option  ARC ® Egg Donor Packages  Additional Treatment Options  Advantages of Multiple Cycle Treatment Package    ARC Affordable Options   ARC © Financing  The ARC ® Pharmacy Plan    Resources   Infertility Diagnosis   Female Infertility  Male Infertility    Infertility Tutorial   Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  What is Infertility?  Prevention  When is the Right Time for Treatment  Evaluation  Diagnosis  Fertility Treatments  What is IVF?  Hormonal Therapy  ARC ® Fertility Glossary    Family Building   Lesbian Couples  Gay Male Couples  Single Women  Single Men  Adoption    Become an Egg Donor  FAQs: The ARC ® Fertility Program  Fertility Articles   Fertility Overview  Infertility Treatment Costs  Women’s Health Care  Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome  Fertility Preservation  New Trends in Health    Fertility Calculators   ARC ® Fertility Calculator  The ARC ® Infertility Stress Test  ARC ® Affordability Estimator    ARC ® Fertility Videos  ARC ® Fertility Blog  Cross Border IVF  Useful Resources – Infertility Links   Educational Resources  Grants & Scholarships  Mind & Body Wellness  Professional Associations      Find a Doctor/Clinic   Spotlight: Practice of the Month  Find a Doctor/Clinic Near You  ARC ® Fertility Clinics    Contact                                                                                 March 27: Happy Easter Learn More      Call Us 1300 - Fertility (337845)     Free Fertility Consultation                                 Menu ≡ ╳    Getting Started   Getting Started  If you are under the age of 35 and have been trying to conceive for at least 12 months, or over 35 and trying to conceive for at least 6 months, it is recommended that you seek assistance   FAQ  Getting Started  Register For Free Information Evening  Why Choose Us?   Schedule Your Free Fertility Consultation  Free Infertility Books and Resources  Conception Stories     Our Team   Our Team  Our team of nurses, scientists, counsellors and fertility specialists will support you during your journey and help you achieve your dream of having a family.   Locations   Sunshine Coast  Bundaberg     Fertility Doctors  Nurses  Scientists  Administration  Counsellors  Complementary Therapists     Treatments   Treatments  We offer patients a comprehensive range of fertility treatments from semen analysis through to genetic testing of embryos.   Bulk Billed IVF  Low Cost IVF  IUI  IVF  ICSI   Using Donor  Donating Sperm, Eggs, Embryos  PCOS  Surgical Sperm Collection   All Treatment Options     Bulk Billed IVF   Costs   Success Rates   Contact                        Home > Fertility Solutions Blog > Success Rates of First Cycle of IVF    Success Rates of First Cycle of IVF              If you are needing to have In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) to start or extend your family, you should know a few facts and statistics about the procedure.  It is important that you are not under the impression that IVF is guaranteed, because that, unfortunately is not the case. Each individuals situation  is different. While there is an overall 50 percent success rate, the procedure may not work for you.  Some individuals are extremely lucky and get pregnant on their first cycle of IVF, the reality is that most don’t. The only way you can find out if IVF will be successful for you is to try a few cycles.  IVF Success Rates   With infertility rates on the rise, more and more couples are wondering how successful In Vitro Fertilization is. Couples and individuals who have the IVF procedure done in Australia are are more likely to become pregnant than any other location. It is a fact that the highest success rates from around the world happen in Australia . When you are over the age of 40, you can expect your chances of success to decrease by at least 20 percent, in comparison to females who 30 or younger. Males do not see a major decrease until they reach the age of 50 although there are thought to be other issues associated with older men fathering children such as behavioural disorders noted in the children.  Getting Pregnant After One Cycle of IVF   The great news about In Vitro Fertilization is that the procedure can be successful after one cycle, however, this is not the case with everyone.  Females under the age of 30 have a 46 percent chance of getting pregnant after their first IVF cycle (this could mean a few embryo transfers – some of them frozen), while females between the ages of 40 and 43 have a less than 12 percent chance of success. There is a 38 percent chance of getting pregnant if you are between the ages of 34 and 40 . If you are a female between the ages of 30 and 33, you have a 58 percent chance of getting pregnant after your first IVF cycle. Specialists will give you options and recommendations that can help increase your chances of getting pregnant after your first cycle of IVF.  Tips to Increase Your Success Rate  There are some tips that can help you increase your chances of becoming pregnant once you have In Vitro Fertilization, even after the first cycle. The younger you are when you try IVF, the more likely you are to get pregnant. For example, a female’s egg quality is better when she is younger than 35. You should also do some research and choose a clinic that has a high success rate. This does not mean you are going to get pregnant with ease, but at least you know this clinic is knowledgeable and successful with the IVF procedures they perform. The specialist at the clinic should explain the step-by-step procedure of the IVF process with you. Remember that these tips are just to help increase your odds, but they are not guaranteed to work.  Your IVF success rate will depend on many factors including your age, health and fertility issues.  You could be one of the lucky couples who become pregnant after the first embryo transfer. If this in not the case, do not get discouraged – the research has suggested it takes on average 6 embryo transfers before a pregnancy is achieved!  Please contact us if you would like to learn more about your chances of becoming pregnant through IVF or our other assisted fertility options.                 Book A Free  Consultation   Have A Question?    Get Our Newsletter                             Fertility Solutions  Fertility Solutions Sunshine Coast  23 Elsa Wilson Drive Suite 22 Buderim QLD 4556 1300 337 845 
              (1300 FERTILITY) (07) 5478 2482  enquiries@fssc.com.au   Fertility Solutions Bundaberg  89 Woongarra Street Bundaberg QLD 
              4670 1300 337 845 (1300 FERTILITY) (07) 4151 5222  bundaberg@fssc.com.au      Popular Resources Baby Gallery  Blog  Brochures & Factsheets  News & Events  IVF Cost Factors  Patient Feedback Form  Prerequisite Tests  Free Infertility Books & Medication  Resource     Donor Programs Donating Sperm  Eggs  Embryos  Using Donor Sperm  Eggs  Embryos     Treatment Options IVF  ICSI  All Treatment Options        Copyright © Fertility Solutions. All Rights Reserved.    SEO & Online Marketing By Mike Munter SEO | Web Design & Maintenance By Simple SEO Group        Privacy Policy  Sitemap  Links  Service Areas  Glossary  GP Resources  Careers                                                   FREE Information Evenings  Learn what to do when you’re trying to conceive and what to do if it’s not working.  CLICK HERE FOR EVENT DATES & LOCATIONS     ×                EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Expert Advice Home   EXPERT ADVICE           Getting Pregnant      TOPICS   How to Get Pregnant  Tips for Getting Pregnant  Before Getting Pregnant  Family Planning  Ovulation Symptoms  Infertility & Trouble Conceiving  • All Getting Pregnant Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Ovulation Calculator  Due Date Calculator  Detecting Ovulation  Am I Pregnant?  Baby Costs Calculator  Age & Fertility  Grief & Loss     POPULAR   Getting Pregnant Fast  Pregnancy Symptoms  Pregnancy Tests  Chart Your Cycle  Coping with Fertility Problems  Timing Sex for Pregnancy  What to Avoid When Trying            How to get pregnant: A primer    Conceiving seems like it should be a natural, easy process. But there are key things to know before you start trying.   How to get pregnant fast  What to avoid when you’re trying  When to see a fertility specialist            Pregnancy      TOPICS   First Trimester  Second Trimester  Third Trimester  Prenatal Care & Tests  Symptoms & Discomforts  Giving Birth  • All Pregnancy Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Due Date Calculator  Ultimate Pregnancy To-Do List  Pregnancy Safety  Pregnancy Weight Calculator  Baby Registry Checklist  Baby Names  Pregnancy Calendar     POPULAR   Newly Pregnant  Pregnancy Week by Week  Top Baby Names  Nutrition & Weight  Sleep & Dreams  Fitness  Zika in Pregnancy            The ultimate pregnancy to-do list    Follow our trimester-by-trimester guide to make your nine-month journey as safe and enjoyable as possible.   Sleep on your side  Visit your dental hygienist  Is it safe to have sex?            Baby      TOPICS   Your Newborn  Baby Development  Baby Sleep  Breastfeeding  Formula Feeding  Solids & Finger Foods  • All Baby Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Sleep & Feeding Schedules  Best Baby Products  Child Costs Calculator  Browse Baby Products  Preemie Babies  Postpartum Depression  Autism     POPULAR   Crying & Colic  Bathing & Body Care  Diapering & Bottom Care  Childcare  Activities & Play  Is It Normal?  Twins & Multiples            Dry those tears    It's not always easy to soothe a crying baby. We can help you figure out what to do when your baby wails.   12 reasons babies cry  Is all this crying normal?  How to cope with colic            Toddler      TOPICS   Toddler Development  Feeding & Nutrition  Behavior  Sleep & Naps  Milestones  Play & Toys  • All Toddler Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Toddler Feeding Guide  Child Growth Chart  Discipline  Childcare  Language & Cognitive Development  Social & Emotional Development  Toddler Calendar     POPULAR   Potty Training  Tantrums  Is It Normal?  Bathing & Body Care  Feeding Problems & Concerns  Toddler Fears  Toddler Products            Major toddler milestones    Toddlers gain skills at incredible speed. See what’s around the corner for your busy little learner.   Walking and running  Talking and using sentences  Cutting back on naps            Preschooler      TOPICS   Behavior  Development  Eating & Nutrition  Activities & Play  Potty Training  Siblings  • All Preschooler Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Picky Eaters  Is It Normal?  Discipline Strategies  Child Height Predictor  Playdates  Learning  Sports & Exercise     POPULAR   Preschool Basics  Parenting Strategies  Is Your Child Gifted?  Milestones  Entertainment  Sleep Problems & Concerns  Teaching Manners            Potty training primer    Time to say goodbye to diapers? We've got you covered with expert and parent-tested potty training tips.   10 steps to a toilet-trained tot  Solutions to potty training problems  Potty training in three days!            Big Kid      TOPICS   Behavior  Development  Activities & Play  Siblings  Milestones  Discipline  • All Big Kid Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Picky Eaters  Speech Problems  Playdate Primer  Is It Normal?  Learning  Raising Girls, Raising Boys  Talking About Difficult Subjects     POPULAR   Is Your Child Gifted?  Child Height Predictor  School  Entertainment  Parenting Strategies  Sleep Problems & Concerns  Bed-Wetting            Pleasing picky eaters    When your child's a picky eater, every meal can seem like a battle. Learn how to win the food wars!   10 ways to please a picky eater  How to avoid mealtime meltdowns  7 superfoods to boost any kid's diet            Health      TOPICS   Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu  Allergies & Asthma  Well-Baby Checkups  Vaccines & Immunizations  Illnesses & Conditions  Teething & Tooth Care  • All Health Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Symptom Checker  Vaccine Scheduler  Giving Medicine  Vomiting & Stomach Problems  Injuries & Accidents  Childproofing  Car Seat Safety     POPULAR   Food Allergies  Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions  Colds  Age-by-age Medicine Guide  Fever in Babies  SIDS  First Aid            Dealing with doctor visits    Getting weighed, saying "ahhh" and sometimes "ouch!" – checkups and immunizations are a part of life for kids of all ages.   Well-baby visits  Well-child visits  Doctor visits and shots made easier            Video      TOPICS   Pregnancy videos  Labor and birth videos  Baby videos  Toddler videos  Preschooler videos  Big kid videos  Live birth videos     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Childbirth class  Baby sleep: Bedtime routines  Pregnancy constipation  Pregnancy sleep  Baby massage  Breastfeeding: 5 lessons  Mom Confidential     POPULAR   Pregnancy body changes  Breast changes during pregnancy  My 6-word birth story  Live birth: Epidural  How to swaddle a baby  How to hold a crying baby  3 ways to burp your baby            Baby sleep tips: Birth to 3 months   Establishing good sleep habits can stop baby sleep problems before they start.   Baby sleep tips: 3 to 9 months  Baby sleep tips: 9 to 12 months  Baby sleep: Tips for Napping             Products & Gear       TOPICS   Maternity Clothes  Strollers  Car Seats  Breastfeeding & Breast Pumps  Essential Pregnancy Products  Baby Clothes and Blankets  On the Go Products     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Baby Registry Checklist  Baby First-year Must-haves  Nursery Furniture 101  Potty Training Tools & Tips  Childproofing Basics  Find the Right Baby Bathtub  How to Buy a Highchair     POPULAR   Moms' Picks  Best Shower Gifts  Shopping by Trimester  Video: How to Choose a Car Seat  How to Choose a Crib  Best Diaper Bags  Browse Toddler Beds            Moms' Picks 2018    See the products that stood out from the rest as voted on by 87,000 picky parents.  Moms' Picks: Best strollers  Moms' Picks: Best convertible car seats  Moms' Picks: Best baby bottles            For You      TOPICS   Just for Moms  Just for Dads  Diet & Nutrition  Fitness  Emotional Wellness  House & Home  • All You & Your Family Topics     TOOLS & RESOURCES   Recovering From Childbirth  Sleep Deprivation  Sex & Contraception  Family Finances  Relationships  Having Another Baby  Family Travel     POPULAR   Life as a Mom  Meal Planning & Recipes  Birthdays  Holidays & Celebrations  Stay-at-Home Parents  Working Parents  Coping With Two or More            Challenges of new parenthood    Your child may be the apple of your eye, but you also have to take care of yourself.   Coping with sleep deprivation  Top expenses and how to save  Making time for your partner                 Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home      Getting Pregnant      Fertility Solutions   /    Fertility Treatments         Preparing to Conceive      Before You Try Getting Pregnant        Trying to Conceive      Tips for Getting Pregnant      Could I Be Pregnant?        Having Trouble Conceiving      Fertility Solutions    Identifying a Fertility Problem     Fertility Treatments    Adoption      Emotional Health & Infertility         All Getting Pregnant topics                                 advertisement              Fertility treatment: In vitro fertilization (IVF)     IN THIS ARTICLE     Is IVF for me?  How does IVF work?  How long will IVF take?  What’s the success rate for IVF?  What are the pros of IVF?  What are the cons of IVF?  What does IVF cost? En español     By Karisa Ding   Reviewed by the BabyCenter Medical Advisory Board   Last updated: March 2016     In vitro fertilization (IVF) is a fertility treatment in which sperm and eggs are combined in a laboratory. The resulting embryos are assessed for quality, and one or more are placed in the uterus through the cervix. IVF is by far the most commonly used high-tech fertility treatment, accounting for more than 99 percent of assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedures. About 1.5 percent of babies born in the United States are conceived using ART.  Is IVF for me? IVF can help you get pregnant if you have problems with ovulation or egg quality, blocked fallopian tubes, or endometriosis ; if your partner has problems with sperm count or motility ; or if you're using donor eggs to become pregnant. IVF may also be an option if your doctor can't pinpoint the problem (this is called "unexplained infertility") or if other treatments have been unsuccessful.  How does IVF work? The timeline for IVF treatment usually goes something like this: Ovary stimulation. For eight to 14 days near the beginning of your menstrual cycle, you take a gonadotropin , a type of fertility drug that stimulates your ovaries to develop multiple mature eggs for fertilization (instead of just one). You also need to take a synthetic hormone like leuprolide or cetrorelix to keep your body from releasing the eggs too early. Follicle development. While taking these medications, you visit your doctor's office or clinic every two to three days to have your blood hormone levels checked and ultrasound measurements of your ovaries done. This allows your healthcare provider to monitor development of the follicles – the fluid-filled sacs where eggs mature. The trigger shot. When the follicles are ready, you get a "trigger shot," an injection that causes the eggs to mature fully and become capable of being fertilized. About 36 hours after your trigger shot, your eggs are ready to be retrieved. Gathering the eggs. Your doctor gives you an anesthetic and inserts an ultrasound probe through your vagina to look at your ovaries and identify the follicles. A thin needle is then inserted through the vaginal wall to remove the eggs from the follicles. Eight to 15 eggs are usually retrieved. You may have some cramping and spotting for a few days afterward, but most women feel better in a day or two. Fertilization. An embryologist (a scientist who specializes in eggs, sperm, and embryos) will examine your eggs before combining them with your partner's sperm and incubating them overnight. Fertilization usually happens during this time, but eggs that aren't normal may not be fertilized. (If sperm quality is poor, or if fertilization was unsuccessful during previous IVF cycles, your doctor may recommend using a technique called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) . With ICSI, a single sperm is injected directly into each mature egg.) Developing embryos. Three days after the egg retrieval, some of the eggs that were successfully fertilized become six- to 10-celled embryos. By the fifth day, some of these embryos will become blastocysts with a fluid-filled cavity and tissues that are beginning to separate into placenta and baby. Embryo selection. The embryologist selects the most viable embryo or embryos to place in your uterus three to five days after the egg retrieval. Extra embryos, if there are any, may be frozen and used for future IVF cycles. Planting the embryos. Depending on your age and diagnosis, your doctor places between one and five embryos in your uterus by inserting a thin tube (a catheter) through your cervix. You might feel some mild cramping, but you won't need anesthesia. Successful implantation. If the treatment works, an embryo implants in your uterine wall and continues to grow into a baby. Keep in mind that if more than one embryo is transferred, your chance of pregnancy is higher, but so are the odds of having a multiple pregnancy – about 20 percent of babies born through IVF are twins, triplets, or more . You can take a pregnancy test about two weeks after the embryos are placed in your uterus. How do home pregnancy tests work? Pregnancy tests can bring exciting news. Find out how they work, how to take one, and what factors could lead to seeing a false positive or negative. See all videos  How long will IVF take? It takes about four to six weeks to complete one cycle of IVF. You have to wait a few weeks for your eggs to mature. Then you and your partner spend about half a day at your doctor's office or clinic having your eggs retrieved and fertilized. You have to go back again three to five days later to have the embryos inserted into your uterus, but you'll be able to go home that same day.  What’s the success rate for IVF? The outcomes of IVF vary dramatically, depending on each couple's reasons for infertility and their ages. Younger women usually have healthier eggs and higher success rates. Based on national data, the percentage of IVF cycles resulting in a live birth (in which one or more babies are born) is about: 40 percent for women age 34 and under 31 percent for women age 35 to 37 21 percent for women age 38 to 40 11 percent for women age 41 to 42 5 percent for women age 43 and over  What are the pros of IVF? Successful track record. IVF is the oldest assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedure on the block – it's been around since 1978. IVF has been used long enough for researchers to have done extended health studies on the children conceived using this method. So far, no medical problems have been directly linked to the procedure. No link to cancer. Recent studies have shown no connection between ovulation-inducing fertility drugs and cancer. Early studies suggested that exposure to fertility drugs might lead to a higher risk of ovarian cancer or other cancers of the female reproductive system. Improved techniques. Researchers continue to refine and improve IVF procedures. For example, advances in embryo cryopreservation (freezing) have resulted in IVF pregnancy rates that are about the same for frozen and fresh embryos.  What are the cons of IVF? Costly and time-consuming. Fertilizing your eggs outside of your body requires costly lab work and medications. Monitoring your response to fertility drugs also requires a lot of time, with frequent trips to the doctor's office for blood tests and ultrasounds. Odds of multiples. Because more than one embryo may be placed in your uterus, your chance of having twins or more is about 20 percent. Though many couples consider this a blessing, multiple fetuses increase your risk of miscarriage and other complications , such as preterm labor. Some doctors will advise you to consider selective reduction if three or more embryos implant successfully. This is a serious decision with major emotional and psychological consequences. IVF researchers are working on techniques to prevent multiple fetuses. Risk of ectopic pregnancy. Women who have difficulty getting pregnant have an increased risk for ectopic pregnancy , regardless of how they conceive. And all assisted reproductive technology treatments, including IVF, also make an ectopic pregnancy more likely. An ectopic pregnancy occurs when an embryo implants in a fallopian tube or the abdominal cavity rather than in the uterus. It's treated with the medication methotrexate or by surgically removing the embryo to prevent it from severely injuring the mother by continuing to grow. Risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS can happen when women respond too well to fertility drugs and produce too many eggs. About 10 to 20 percent of women who take gonadotropins develop a mild form of OHSS, a condition marked by weight gain and a full, bloated feeling. Some also have shortness of breath, dizziness, pelvic pain, nausea, and vomiting. If you have OHSS, your ovaries swell to several times the normal size and produce fluid that accumulates in your abdominal cavity. Normally this resolves itself with careful monitoring by a physician and bed rest. But in rare cases it's life threatening, and you may have to be hospitalized for more intensive monitoring or treatment. Potential complications for baby. Babies conceived with high-tech treatments for infertility such as IVF may be more likely to be born prematurely or have a low birth weight. They may also have a slightly higher risk of birth defects. But experts aren't sure whether that's from the factors that cause infertility (such as age) or the treatments. It may not work. Up to 20 percent of IVF cycles may be cancelled before eggs are retrieved, usually because not enough follicles developed. Reducing the risk of OHSS is another reason for cancellation.  What does IVF cost? In the United States, expect to spend an average of $12,400 for one cycle of IVF if you're using your own eggs and your partner's sperm. The amount you'll pay depends on how much medicine you need, where you live, and whether your state mandates insurance coverage for fertility treatments. If your insurance doesn't cover them, you'll probably have to pay the entire cost up front. Learn more about handling the cost of fertility treatment .     Show sources       Hide sources       SART. 2013. Fertility data table. Society for Reproductive Medicine. https://www.sartcorsonline.com/rptCSR_PublicMultYear.aspx [Accessed 2016] CDC. 2014. ART cycles using donor eggs. U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/art/ART2011/sect4_fig38-42.htm#f41 [Accessed 2015] CDC. 2015. ART success rates. U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/art/artdata/index.html [Accessed 2015] UpToDate. 2016. Assisted reproductive technologies. [Accessed 2015]          page continues below             Discuss this topic   Comments (53)                              advertisement       Featured video     What is implantation bleeding?   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos                                  You might also like                  Fertility treatment: Getting started   Find out about treatment options for fertility problems, including side effects and success rates.                Fertility treatment: Intrauterine insemination (IUI)   Is artificial insemination for you? What are the pluses and minuses, and what should you expect?                Fertility treatment: Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)   Find out if this breakthrough treatment for male fertility problems could help you or your partner.                    Fertility drug: Gonadotropins   What gonadotropins are, the part these drugs play in fertility treatment, and how much this treatment usually costs                Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Assisted reproductive technologies (ART)   In the 1970s, British doctors began removing eggs from women who had trouble conceiving and fertilized the eggs in a laboratory...                    Fertility Solutions   Having trouble getting pregnant can be frustrating. Get the scoop on identifying fertility problems, treatment options, and ado...                Endometriosis   Find out what endometriosis is, why some women have, how to recognize endometriosis if you do have it, how it's treated, and ho...                Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                    Fertility treatment: Donor eggs and embryos   Read about how donor eggs or embryos can help you carry and deliver a baby.                          Fertility treatment: Getting started   Find out about treatment options for fertility problems, including side effects and success rates.                Fertility treatment: Intrauterine insemination (IUI)   Is artificial insemination for you? What are the pluses and minuses, and what should you expect?                    Fertility treatment: Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)   Find out if this breakthrough treatment for male fertility problems could help you or your partner.                Fertility drug: Gonadotropins   What gonadotropins are, the part these drugs play in fertility treatment, and how much this treatment usually costs                    Fertility Treatments   Fertility drugs and procedures for men and women, tips about therapy and support, and more                Fertility treatment: Assisted reproductive technologies (ART)   In the 1970s, British doctors began removing eggs from women who had trouble conceiving and fertilized the eggs in a laboratory...                    Fertility Solutions   Having trouble getting pregnant can be frustrating. Get the scoop on identifying fertility problems, treatment options, and ado...                Endometriosis   Find out what endometriosis is, why some women have, how to recognize endometriosis if you do have it, how it's treated, and ho...                    Fertility treatment: Your options at a glance   A quick breakdown of different options for treating fertility problems, including surgery, drugs, surrogacy, and more                Fertility treatment: Donor eggs and embryos   Read about how donor eggs or embryos can help you carry and deliver a baby.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons       Editor's picks            How to know when you're ovulating               Top signs of pregnancy               How long it takes to get pregnant             advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                                              847.662.1818     nurse@advancedfertility.com          ☰  ˟     HOME  TESTIMONIALS  ABOUT US  CONTACT US  BECOME A PATIENT  BLOG     Home  Testimonials  About us  Contact us  Become a Patient  Blog    Request More Info                 SUCCESS RATES never mattered more   What sets us apart from other fertility clinics?     (age under 35)  See more details on SART website     Some reasons we are so successful:   We give personalized attention to every patient, not possible in "super-sized" clinics  Tight quality control gives us consistently higher IVF success rates - so our patients are more likely to have babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              See more details on SART website         Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago                Home       Menu  ▼        IVF Success Rates    Our IVF Success Rates  Blastocyst Success Rates  Links to CDC & SART IVF Success Rate Reports       IVF Pricing Plans    IVF Cost Overview  Single Cycle IVF Costs  Multiple Cycle & Refund  Multiple Cycle No Refund       IVF Overview    IVF Procedures    ICSI for Sperm Issues    Day 5 Blast Transfer    Embryo Pictures    Embryo Grading    Day 3 Embryo Quality  Day 5 Embryo Quality      Egg Donation    Egg Donation Overview  Donor Success Rates  Our Egg Donors  Frozen Donor Eggs  Egg Donation Pricing      General Infertility    Causes of Infertility    Female Age and Fertility  Male Infertility  Ovulation Problems  PCOS: Polycystic Ovaries  Endometriosis  Tubal Infertility  Uterine Problems  Unexplained Infertility      Infertility Testing    Basic Infertility Workup  Dye Test - HSG  Ovarian Reserve Tests  Sperm Tests      Infertility Treatment    Intrauterine Insemination  In Vitro Fertilization  Treating Ovulation  Male Fertility Treatment      About Us    Richard Sherbahn, MD  Michelle Catenacci, MD  Gary Jones, MD  Chicago Office  Gurnee Office  Crystal Lake Office  Become a Patient  Contact Us      Testimonials         Infertility Treatment & In Vitro Fertilization - IVF - Insurance Coverage Issues  Health insurance coverage for infertility and IVF treatments overview  Medical insurance coverage for infertility treatment and for IVF, in vitro fertilization can be straightforward or complicated. This is an effort to explain some of the issues regarding health insurance coverage for infertility testing and treatment.  Because our fertility clinic is in northern Illinois and close to Wisconsin - insurance coverage for IVF and infertility in Illinois and Wisconsin will be specifically addressed. Insurance coverage for infertility , artificial inseminations and in vitro fertilization varies greatly. Some insurance plans will cover no infertility services, some pay for all of it and many are somewhere in between.  About 15 states have some type of mandate for infertility insurance coverage - so couples in those states will be likely to get some help with payment for their fertility services from their health insurance plan.  In states without any infertility coverage mandate, most insurance plans do not help much with payment for fertility and IVF services. IVF insurance coverage is less common than coverage for fertility services other than IVF. This is because IVF costs more than other infertility testing and treatments.  Insurance plans in which we are currently "participating providers"  We can see patients with any PPO plan. When a doctor is "out of network" it does not mean that the insurance company will not pay for the services. If we are not "in network" with the plan, then the patient will usually have a higher amount of "coinsurance" (what they are expected to pay) as compared to if they went to a doctor that is "in network".  We have many patients that see us "out of network". They have decided to come to us "out of network" (and pay more out-of-pocket) because of our superior success rates, our personalized care, recommendations from friends or their doctor, or for other reasons.  We are "in network" with many insurance plans as shown here.     We are currently "in network" with these insurance plans    Aetna   PPO HMO POS    Blue Choice (also Blue Options)  PPO PPO (BCS)    Blue Cross   PPO    Cigna   PPO HMO POS      Humana   PPO HMO POS    Optum Health (formerly  United Resources Network)  All plans    United Healthcare   PPO HMO POS       Infertility testing and health insurance coverage  Health insurance plans will commonly (but not always) pay for services related to testing for infertility . However, many plans say that once the diagnosis has been established that they will no longer pay for fertility related services. This is likely due to the fact that covering diagnostic testing does not cost them very much.  There are potential gray areas with coverage for tests. For example, a woman is trying to get pregnant and has heavy periods and very bad menstrual cramps. She has a hysteroscopy at the fertility clinic to investigate the situation. Regardless of the findings of the test, the insurance company might pay for it in full - or reject payment saying that they don't cover infertility . Was the test done for her bleeding and pain, or was it done for infertility? What if it was done for all of those reasons? It can be a little complicated and confusing at times.  Infertility treatment and insurance  Treatment for infertility is covered by insurance much less commonly than testing is. Outside of a state mandated situation (see below), when there is coverage for infertility treatment, it is fairly common to exclude IVF or to have a lifetime maximum benefit.  We commonly see health insurance plans that have between $10,000 and $25,000 as a lifetime max. This caps the potential costs for the insurance carrier. In other cases, insurance will cover testing and treatment up to and including intrauterine inseminations - but they will not cover IVF - in vitro fertilization services. Sometimes the "monitoring" of the IVF ovarian stimulation (blood and ultrasound tests) are covered, but all of the (more expensive) IVF codes are not covered.  State insurance mandates for infertility and IVF services  There are currently 15 states that have infertility mandates of some kind. The mandates are very different in terms of what is covered - how many IVF cycles, etc. Some of the mandates are very comprehensive and others much less so. Details of mandates other than Illinois are not discussed here.        States with some kind of infertility coverage mandate    Arkansas  Illinois  Montana  Rhode Island    California  Louisiana  New Jersey  Texas    Connecticut  Maryland  New York  West Virginia    Hawaii  Massachusetts  Ohio       State of Illinois insurance mandate for infertility and IVF services  The state of Illinois passed the Family Building Act in 1991. In short, it requires group health insurance plans that cover more than 25 employees to cover diagnosis and treatment of infertility up to and including 4 IVF attempts (egg retrieval procedures).     The text below is from the IL Department of 
Financial and Professional Regulation website.    Text of the Illinois Infertility Law (215 ILCS 5/356m)     Sec. 356m. Infertility coverage.     (a) No group policy of accident and health 
insurance providing coverage for more than 25 employees that provides 
pregnancy related benefits may be issued, amended, delivered, or renewed 
in this State after the effective date of this amendatory Act of 1991 
unless the policy contains coverage for the diagnosis and treatment of 
infertility including, but not limited to, in vitro fertilization, 
uterine embryo lavage, embryo transfer, artificial insemination, gamete 
intrafallopian tube transfer, zygote intrafallopian tube transfer, and 
low tubal ovum transfer.  (b) The coverage required under subsection (a) is 
subject to the following conditions:  (1) Coverage for procedures for in vitro 
fertilization, gamete intrafallopian tube transfer, or zygote 
intrafallopian tube transfer shall be required only if:  (A) The covered individual has been unable to 
attain or sustain a successful pregnancy through reasonable, less costly 
medically appropriate infertility treatments for which coverage is 
available under the policy, plan, or contract;  (B) the covered individual has not undergone 4 
completed oocyte retrievals, except that if a live birth follows a 
completed oocyte retrieval, then 2 more completed oocyte retrievals 
shall be covered; and  (C) the procedures are performed at medical 
facilities that conform to the American College of Obstetric and 
Gynecology guidelines for in vitro fertilization clinics or to the 
American Fertility Society minimal standards for programs of in vitro 
fertilization.  (2) the procedures required to be covered under 
this Section are not required to be contained in any policy or plan 
issued to or by a religious institution or organization or to or by an 
entity sponsored by a religious institution or organization that finds 
the procedures required to be covered under this Section to violate its 
religious and moral teachings and beliefs.  (c) For purpose of this Section, "infertility" 
means the inability to conceive after one year of unprotected sexual 
intercourse or the inability to sustain a successful pregnancy.  (Source: P.A. 89-669, effective 1-1-97.)     More details about the Illinois infertility and IVF insurance mandate are available - click below for a PDF document from the State of IL:  Insurance Coverage Mandate Law for Infertility Treatment in Illinois  Loopholes in the Illinois infertility insurance mandate  It might seem that a mandate should be a mandate. However, in the case of Illinois, someone has decided that the IL mandate is "somewhat optional" (my own take on the situation). It has evolved over the years since 1991 so that now (2015) there seem to be some loopholes that allow employers to offer plans without infertility coverage.  This situation exists even though the law itself has not been repealed or changed. What has changed, perhaps, is interpretation and enforcement of the existing "infertility mandate".  Common reasons we hear regarding why various plans in IL do not cover infertility services at all - or they do not live up to the full IL mandate include:   We have a self insured plan, so we don't have to cover infertility   Our company is based in ________ (fill in the blank, Germany, Arizona, etc.)   Our insurance company is based in  ________ (wherever)   It's not our fault (the employer), we don't know why that insurance company isn't covering infertility   What all of these excuses come down to is - "we don't want to pay for it, so sue us if you think that you can win". Of course they don't say that, but it's still the bottom line. People don't want to take on an expensive and possibly losing lawsuit against their employer - so they pay for their fertility services "out of pocket".  Fortunately, many employers in IL are following the mandate and offer plans that cover the mandated infertility services. However, quite a few do not cover it - or only offer some coverage that falls short of the levels spelled out in the mandate.  Over time, more states are passing mandates for infertility insurance coverage. Who knows how the situation in Illinois will evolve over time. Infertility support organizations have also been lobbying for a national infertility insurance mandate - so far without success.  In many countries in the world infertility is considered to be a disease like any other - and covered by health insurance or the socialized medical system like any other disease would be. In the US it is looked at by insurance carriers more as a social issue rather than a medical issue - and then can be added to health insurance plans as an "extra", if desired. In the end money drives it all.  State of Wisconsin infertility and IVF insurance coverage  Because our Gurnee office is close to the Wisconsin border we have many couples that come down to us for IVF treatment. Unfortunately, Wisconsin does not yet have any state mandate for infertility or IVF services to be covered. Some employers will cover it to some extent, but many provide no coverage at all.  It is fairly common for our Wisconsin patients to have some coverage for diagnostic testing, and much less common to have any coverage for treatment of infertility. About 5% of our patients from Wisconsin have insurance coverage for IVF. Hopefully, health insurance coverage for infertility and IVF in WI will become more common in the future.  Costs for fertility testing and treatments Traditional single cycle IVF Pricing Money-back Refund IVF Cost Plans Egg Donation Costs     Quick Links   Freeze some eggs to preserve your fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees  Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues / plans       CHICAGO        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C Chicago, IL  60630  Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819       GURNEE        30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001       CRYSTAL LAKE        820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C  Chicago , IL  60630   Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819    30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001    820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866    TESTIMONIALS     I am so grateful for Advanced Fertility Center. I just had my son Leland. I want to thank Dr. Catenacci and all of the nurses that helped us. Especially Ashley in the Crystal Lake office. You made this process easier by being supportive and positive. Thank you very much!     Dr. Sherban and his staff are the most amazing, compassionate, and supportive people. After almost 5 years of trying to conceive, going through numerous tests and meeting with another clinic closer to home, who told me my chances even with IVF were still very low, a good friend recommended advanced fertility center of Chicago. Best decision we ever made! We now have 2 amazing children who are now 5 and 3 years old! I cannot stress enough how amazing this staff is, they make you feel like family!     Our experience was amazing with Dr. Cantanucci and all of the nurses (especially Ashley). After ttc for 4 years and at 41 years of age, we became pregnant after 1 round of IVF, and had our beautiful boy this past October. Can't thank them enough!     2/7/15 our son was born all thanks to the assistance of Dr. Sherbahn and his staff. Everyone was so helpful and here for all our questions, worries, etc. They want this for you just as much as you want this for you! Handled with pure professionalism and care from the very start! Thank you advanced fertility!          REQUEST PROGRAM INFO  Fill out my online form .     © 2017 Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago , S.C. All Rights Reserved    Home  Become a Patient  Contact Us  Privacy Policy             QUICK LINKS  Low cost fertility screening tests  Freeze eggs to preserve fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees    Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues/plans    CONTACT   Chicago   (773) 794-1818   Gurnee   (847) 662-1818   Crystal Lake   (815) 356-1818                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Menu           What Are the Chances for IVF Success?         Share       Pin       Email                Search the site             GO         More in Fertility Challenges       Treatment      IVF     Clomid       Causes & Concerns     Diagnosis & Testing     Coping and Moving Forward        Non-Verbal Learning Disability  Ferber Method  Baby Lung Development  Self-Hitting  Thumb Sucking  Eczema After Pregnancy        Getting Pregnant     Trying to Conceive  Signs & Symptoms  Pregnancy Tests  Challenges  Fertility Testing  Fertility Treatment   View All          Pregnancy     Weeks & Trimesters  Staying Healthy  Preparing for Baby  Complications & Concerns  Postpartum Care  Pregnancy Loss   View All          Ages & Stages     Babies  Breastfeeding  Toddlers  School-Aged Kids  Tweens  Teens   View All          Parenting     Raising Kids  Activities  Child Care  School  Bullying  Special Needs Kids   View All          Healthy Kids     Everyday Wellness  Safety & First Aid  Immunizations  Food & Nutrition  Fitness  Active Play   View All          Visit our other Verywell sites:                                 Fertility Challenges    Treatment    IVF  What Are the Chances for IVF Success?     By Rachel Gurevich  | Reviewed by Anita Sadaty, MD    Updated September 27, 2017            Share       Pin       Email      Print                      IVF is no guarentee of pregnancy, but it has helped millions have children who couldn't have them otherwise.
Compassionate Eye Foundation/Three Images/Digital Vision/Getty Images       More in Fertility Challenges       Treatment      IVF     Clomid       Causes & Concerns     Diagnosis & Testing     Coping and Moving Forward        Given the high cost of IVF , you’re probably wondering if IVF will work for you. The good news is that IVF is generally successful, especially for women under age 35 and those using donor eggs. For women of all ages, the odds of a live birth are between 34 and 42 percent over three cycles. IVF success rates are available online at the website for the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART).         You can look up the national rates, or find rates for individual clinics, at these sites. The success rates are generally reported according to the woman's age since as a woman gets older, the IVF success rates go down if she's using her own eggs. According to the data collected for 2014, these are the IVF success rates nationally, when using non-donor eggs, per egg retrieval . (These are not per cycle . In other words, these are the odds of a live birth after one egg retrieval, which may mean conception with fresh eggs/embryos in the cycle of the egg retrieval ​ or after a frozen embryo transfer cycle in the following months.) For women younger than 35, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 54.4 percent. For women ages 35 to 37, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 42 percent. For women ages 38 to 40, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 26.6 percent.   For women ages 41 to 42, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 13.3 percent. For women ages 43 and up, the percentage of live births per egg retrieval is 3.9 percent. As you can see, IVF success goes down significantly after age 40. For this reason, most women 40 and up use donor eggs . Success rates when using donor eggs are not as dependent on the woman's age.         The percentage of live births per cycle when using donor eggs is 53.5 percent with fresh embryos. The percentage of live births per cycle when using donor eggs is 38.5 percent when using frozen embryos . It's interesting to note that IVF success rates with donor eggs are even higher than a woman younger than 35 using her own eggs. Donor eggs offer the best chance for success. One Cycle Statistics vs Multiple Cycle Statistics Something else that's important to realize is the statistics above are for one egg retrieval. Your odds of success increase if you can do more than one IVF cycle, and it's typically recommended that you plan on it. According to at least one study, women who conceived with IVF treatment went through an average of 2.7 cycles. They found that the odds for success—for women of all ages—after three IVF cycles were between 34 and 42 percent. Practically speaking, to improve your odds, you should try for at least three IVF cycles. What about trying for more than three cycles? This particular study found that cumulative pregnancy success odds continued to improve (slightly) for up to five cycles. After that, the odds plateaued. The high cost of IVF, plus the psychological distress experienced by couples , makes multiple IVF cycles difficult.         Few couples are able or willing to go through more than two or three cycles. Getting Personal Odds for Success With IVF IVF success is dependent on a number of factors, some of which you have little control over, and many of which are specific to you personally. Some of these factors include your age, the reasons for infertility, whether or not donor eggs (or sperm) will be used, and the competency of the IVF clinic or lab. While looking at the national statistics can give you a general idea, it's not going to really tell you what your particular chances of success are. The great news is that SART has created a patient predictor tool that will give you slightly more personal odds.  It's free and easy to use. The tool assumes you have not done IVF before. You need to provide your age, height and weight, how many pregnancies you've had (this total includes any pregnancy losses), how many full-term births, your cause for infertility, and whether you plan to use your own eggs. (If you don't know your cause for infertility, you can indicate that on their tool.) Univfy has developed a tool that can give you a better idea of whether IVF will work for you personally. This tool is not free, but it considers more data than the SART predictor and can be used if you have done IVF previously. You input your personal fertility data, including diagnosis, age, weight, and previous success (or not) in fertility treatments. Their calculator will then consider your data with the research and give you personal odds of statistics. The calculation is not free but may be worth it. At the end of the day, only you can decide what odds you're comfortable with. What Univfy will give you is more accurate odds to make that decision on. IVF Success at Individual Clinics You can look up IVF success rates on individual clinics —and you should—but it's important to take some of this information with a grain of salt. For example, a clinic with excellent rates may be turning away couples who have a lower chance of success. Or, they may be transferring a higher number of embryos per treatment cycle, which is risky. It's also possible that a very small client base can show abnormally high success rates. Also, make sure you're comparing their live birth rates and not just their pregnancy rates. Pregnancy success is going to be higher than the live birth rate since it does not account for miscarriage and stillbirth. You can look up the success rates for clinics near you on the CDC's website. Sources: 2014 Assisted Reproductive Technology Fertility Clinic Success Rates Report . Center for Disease Control. Clinic Summary Report. Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. https://www.sartcorsonline.com/rptCSR_PublicMultYear.aspx?ClinicPKID=0 Stewart LM1, Holman CD, Hart R, Finn J, Mai Q, Preen DB. “ How effective is in vitro fertilization, and how can it be improved? ” Fertil Steril. 2011 Apr;95(5):1677-83. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2011.01.130. Epub 2011 Feb 12.                                       Continue Reading                    Article  What is IVF? Basics on In Vitro Fertilization Treatment           Article  What Are the Chances You'll Get Pregnant After 40?           Article  9 Things That Boost Your Odds of Getting Pregnant With Twins           Article  Egg Donor IVF: The Basics You Should Know           List  What to Expect Along the Path to Conceiving With IVF           Article  Is IUI a Successful Fertility Treatment?           Article  Could Assisted Hatching Help You Take Home a Baby After IVF?           Article  What Are Your Real Chances of Getting Pregnant After 35?                          Article  What's ICSI-IVF? And Should Everyone Really Be Doing It?           Article  Who Really Needs IVF? What Are Your Options If You Don't Want It?           Article  Elective Single Embryo Transfer (eSET): Is It for You?           Article  What It Means When Your IVF Cycle Is Delayed or Canceled           Article  Questions to Ask Before You Hire Your Fertility Doctor           Article  How Many Eggs Are Ideal With Superovulation?           Article  Should You Freeze Your Eggs to Extend Your Fertility?           Article  What a Diagnosis of Primary Ovarian Insufficiency Means for You                               Daily Parenting Advice to Your Inbox       Email Address   Sign Up  There was an error. Please try again.   Thank you, , for signing up.     Follow Us                             Getting Pregnant  Pregnancy  Ages & Stages  Parenting  Healthy Kids     About Us  Advertise  Privacy Policy  Careers  Contact  Terms of Use                Home  Calculator  About us  Publications  Contact us     twitter    HELP US IMPROVE OUR ONLINE CALCULATOR          Using the Calculator    Entering information  For each of the nine steps, you choose the option that matches the IVF situation you have in mind. This could either be your current situation, or a hypothetical situation. For some of the steps, you will need some clinical information, such as causes of infertility or proposed medication. After the nine steps, there is a summary page that lists the choices you made, together with the calculated percentage chance of a live birth for an IVF cycle.  Re-calculating  From the summary page you can modify choices (for example - choosing a different age, or selecting donor eggs instead of own eggs, or changing the medication). Any changes in the calculated percentage will be displayed immediately.  Warnings   Using the back button or refresh button on your browser can lead to calculations being displayed that are based on choices not shown in the summary. If you think that you may have made an incorrect choice, the safest option is to return to the main page and start again. If you are on the summary page, there is a reset button that allows you to start from scratch.  You should ensure that you have made consistent choices for steps 5 through 7. For example, if this is the first IVF cycle (option 1 for step 5), then you should choose zero as the number of unsuccessful IVF attempts in the past (step 6), and you should choose one of the "no previous IVF" options for step 7.          Online Calculator    To calculate your personalised prediction of the chance of having a live birth 
with your next IVF cycle please follow the instructions on each page and select 
the correct option for you.  At the end you will see a summary page where you will be able to change your 
answers and recalculate your personalised prediction.    Step 1 of 9 - Age    Please select the woman's age:   Please Choose  -----------------  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50        Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 2 of 9 - Years trying    For how many years have you been trying to get pregnant?   Please Choose  -----------------  Less than 1 year  1 year  2 years  3 years  4 years  5 years  6 years  7 years  8 years  9 years  10 years  11 years  12 years  More than 12 years        Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 3 of 9 - Source of eggs    Are you intending to use your own eggs or donor eggs?   Please Choose  -----------------  Own eggs  Donor eggs        Go to the next step   Go to the summary page   Return to the main page  IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy  What has your doctor told you is the cause of your infertility?  This can be either:   Unknown  Low sperm count  Damaged tubes  Not ovulating regularly  Endometriosis  Cervical  Or more than one of the above causes      Step 4 of 9 - Cause    Which option applies to you?   Please Choose  -----------------  Unknown  Damaged tubes  Irregular ovulation  Endometriosis  Cervical  Low sperm count  More than one cause         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 5 of 9 - Attempts at IVF    Is this your first, second or third or more attempt at IVF?   Please Choose  -----------------  First  Second  Third or more         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 6 of 9 - Previous attempts at IVF    How many unsuccessful attempts at IVF have you had? ("Unsuccessful" means that there was no live birth, even if there was a pregnancy.)   Please Choose  -----------------  Zero  One  Two  Three  Four  Five or more         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy   Which of the following options applies to you?  Have never been pregnant  Have been pregnant without IVF, but didn't have a live birth  Have had a live birth without IVF  Have had IVF in the past, but didn't become pregnant  Have had IVF in the past, became pregnant but didn't have a live birth  Have had IVF in the past, and had a live birth       Step 7 of 9 - History    Which option applies to you?   Please Choose  -----------------  No IVF, no pregnancy  No IVF, pregnant only  No IVF, live birth  IVF, no pregnancy  IVF, pregnant only  IVF, live birth         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy      Step 8 of 9 - Medication    Which medication are you going to be using?  (Gonadotrophins are usual if you are using your own eggs and HRT is normal if you are using donor eggs.)   Please Choose  -----------------  Antioestrogen  Gonadotrophin  Hormone replacement         Go to the next step    Go to the summary page    Return to the main page    IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy     Step 9 of 9 - ICSI    Has your doctor recommended Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI)? This is normally used if you have a low sperm count or poor sperm motility.   Please Choose  -----------------  No  Yes        Go to the summary page   Return to the main page  IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy    IVFpredict.com Information Summary    Woman's age:   Please Choose  -----------------  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  47  48  49  50     Trying for:   Please Choose  -----------------  Less than 1 year  1 year  2 years  3 years  4 years  5 years  6 years  7 years  8 years  9 years  10 years  11 years  12 years  More than 12 years    Own or donor eggs?   Please Choose  -----------------  Own eggs  Donor eggs    Cause:   Please Choose  -----------------  Unknown  Damaged tubes  Irregular ovulation  Endometriosis  Cervical  Low sperm count  More than one cause    IVF attempts:   Please Choose  -----------------  First  Second  Third or more    Unsuccessful IVF attempts:   Please Choose  -----------------  Zero  One  Two  Three  Four  Five or more    Pregnancy history:   Please Choose  -----------------  No IVF, no pregnancy  No IVF, pregnant only  No IVF, live birth  IVF, no pregnancy  IVF, pregnant only  IVF, live birth    Medication:   Please Choose  -----------------  Antioestrogen  Gonadotrophin  Hormone replacement    Will ICSI be used?   Please Choose  -----------------  No  Yes        Your chance of a live birth per IVF attempt is:    text here         Return to the main page   Please note: using the refresh and back buttons in your browser may result in calculations being performed based on choices that aren't currently displayed.  If you think you may have made an incorrect choice, please either use the reset button, or return to the main page and start making your choices again.   IVFpredict © 2011 | Privacy policy        IVFpredict© 2011 - 2013 | Privacy policy                                        847.662.1818     nurse@advancedfertility.com          ☰  ˟     HOME  TESTIMONIALS  ABOUT US  CONTACT US  BECOME A PATIENT  BLOG     Home  Testimonials  About us  Contact us  Become a Patient  Blog    Request More Info                 SUCCESS RATES never mattered more   What sets us apart from other fertility clinics?     (age under 35)  See more details on SART website     Some reasons we are so successful:   We give personalized attention to every patient, not possible in "super-sized" clinics  Tight quality control gives us consistently higher IVF success rates - so our patients are more likely to have babies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              See more details on SART website         Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago                Home       Menu  ▼        IVF Success Rates    Our IVF Success Rates  Blastocyst Success Rates  Links to CDC & SART IVF Success Rate Reports       IVF Pricing Plans    IVF Cost Overview  Single Cycle IVF Costs  Multiple Cycle & Refund  Multiple Cycle No Refund       IVF Overview    IVF Procedures    ICSI for Sperm Issues    Day 5 Blast Transfer    Embryo Pictures    Embryo Grading    Day 3 Embryo Quality  Day 5 Embryo Quality      Egg Donation    Egg Donation Overview  Donor Success Rates  Our Egg Donors  Frozen Donor Eggs  Egg Donation Pricing      General Infertility    Causes of Infertility    Female Age and Fertility  Male Infertility  Ovulation Problems  PCOS: Polycystic Ovaries  Endometriosis  Tubal Infertility  Uterine Problems  Unexplained Infertility      Infertility Testing    Basic Infertility Workup  Dye Test - HSG  Ovarian Reserve Tests  Sperm Tests      Infertility Treatment    Intrauterine Insemination  In Vitro Fertilization  Treating Ovulation  Male Fertility Treatment      About Us    Richard Sherbahn, MD  Michelle Catenacci, MD  Gary Jones, MD  Chicago Office  Gurnee Office  Crystal Lake Office  Become a Patient  Contact Us      Testimonials        IVF and Age  - Impact of Female Aging on In Vitro Fertilization Statistics   Both egg quantity and egg quality are very much related to female age  Testing Egg Quality and Quantity  We do not have a test for egg quality . The best test of egg quality is actually the woman's age. Egg quality translates over to embryo quality - which is by far the most important factor determining if IVF works.
		
		We do have testing for egg quantity ovarian reserve  Day 3 FSH testing  AMH levels  Antral follicle counts    In Vitro Fertilization Success Rate Statistics by Female Age  We will use charts and graphs to illustrate important points about age and IVF success.  See our IVF success rates   The graphs below are from the 2014 ART Success Rates report published by the CDC, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a US government agency. The report summarizes national data from about 450 clinics and about 200,000 IVF treatments.  Links to the annual CDC IVF success rate report   This chart is US national average data on success rates per IVF cycle by female age for 2014.
  The dark blue line (triangles) shows pregnancy rates per cycle by age.
  The orange line (circles) shows live birth rates per cycle
  by age. The rate of singleton live births per cycle is shown by the light blue line.
  
  The difference between "pregnancy" rate and "live birth" rate is due to miscarriages.    The data shows the impact of advancing female age on IVF success.  We can see that the success rate curve starts dropping at about age 30  It drops faster starting at about age 35 - and then the drop is linear down to 1% live birth success rate by age 45      This chart is also from the 2014 CDC Report. The IVF live birth rates per cycle started for different age groups are circled in red. The percent of IVF cycles that made it as far as an egg retrieval, an embryo transfer and a pregnancy are also shown.    As women age the probability of reaching egg retrieval or embryo transfer drops   This is because the rate of IVF cycle cancellation increases with aging    With aging, the probability of pregnancy and live birth drops even more   This is because the rate of embryo implantation decreases with age  Decreased embryo implantation is due to embryo quality issues  The decline in embryo quality is due to increasing chromosomal abnormalities in eggs with advancing age  Chromosomal abnormalities in embryos can be screened for prior to transferring with preimplantation genetic screeniing, PGS  Miscarriage rates increase with age   Shown by the difference in "pregnancy" and "live birth" rates on this graph  Increased miscarriage rates are also due to increased rates of chromosomally abnormal embryos         US National Average  IVF Live Birth Rates and Our Program's Statistics for 2015  Our IVF success rates exceed national averages     Our success rate for IVF in 2015 (age < 35) was 58% and the national average was 41%.     Our egg donation success rate for 2015 was 83% and the national average was 50%.     Data above is from the 2015 SART Report Links to the SART and CDC Reports - check any clinic's success rates .     High quality IVF results in better embryo quality which leads to better chances for successful outcomes - at any age.      Low quality day 3 embryo  Significant cellular fragmentation is evident.     High quality day 5 blastocyst  This embryo has a high chance to implant. Blastocyst transfer can increase implantation.         More IVF embryo pictures    In this graph from the 2014 CDC Report, the orange line shows IVF success rates by age using the  woman's own eggs
			 The blue line shows success rates using donor eggs by age of the recipient woman.    The graph above shows that on the average IVF success rates using own eggs starts to drop at about 30 and drops faster in the mid 30s and early 40s. This drop is caused by decreasing egg quantity and quality.  Live births are rare at age 44 and above using the female partner's eggs.  There is no drop in success rate with age when using young donor eggs.  The age of the eggs is very important.  The age of the recipient (uterine age) has very little effect on success rates when using donor eggs.  Most donors are in their 20's - so the "egg age" is excellent with egg donation cycles.      Details of Dr. Sherbahn's research on recipient age and donor egg success rates       Available Treatment for Infertility: In Vitro Fertilization  Many infertility doctors recommend that women over about 38 that are infertile should have aggressive treatment and proceed to in vitro fertilization (IVF) relatively quickly - before all fertility potential is lost.  Most IVF centers are willing to attempt IVF using the female partner's eggs until about age 44 or 45, after which the couple would be offered egg donation as the only realistic advanced fertility treatment.   IVF centers in the US do not all use the same upper age cutoff  Some clinics do not offer IVF beyond age 42 - others will go to 46 or 47 with own eggs   Read more about age limits for in vitro fertilization       Related Articles   Age and fertility  Egg quantity and quality issues  Number of eggs and IVF success  Fertility and IVF in women after age 40  Our IVF success rates  Age, egg quality and chromosome problems in eggs  Age and miscarriage  What to do if the first IVF cycle fails  Discussion about egg donation  Available egg donors  Our egg donation success rates    A comparison of clinic success rates may not be meaningful because patient medical characteristics, treatment approaches and entrance criteria for ART may vary from clinic to clinic.    Quick Links   Freeze some eggs to preserve your fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees  Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues / plans       CHICAGO        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C Chicago, IL  60630  Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819       GURNEE        30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001       CRYSTAL LAKE        820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866        4920 N. Central Ave Suite 2C  Chicago , IL  60630   Phone: (773) 794-1818 Fax: (773) 794-1819    30 Tower Court Suite F Gurnee, IL  60031  Phone: (847) 662-1818 Fax: (847) 662-3001    820 E. Terra Cotta Ave (Rte 176) Suite 118 Crystal Lake, IL  60014  Phone: (815) 356-1818 Fax: (815) 356-1866    TESTIMONIALS     I am so grateful for Advanced Fertility Center. I just had my son Leland. I want to thank Dr. Catenacci and all of the nurses that helped us. Especially Ashley in the Crystal Lake office. You made this process easier by being supportive and positive. Thank you very much!     Dr. Sherban and his staff are the most amazing, compassionate, and supportive people. After almost 5 years of trying to conceive, going through numerous tests and meeting with another clinic closer to home, who told me my chances even with IVF were still very low, a good friend recommended advanced fertility center of Chicago. Best decision we ever made! We now have 2 amazing children who are now 5 and 3 years old! I cannot stress enough how amazing this staff is, they make you feel like family!     Our experience was amazing with Dr. Cantanucci and all of the nurses (especially Ashley). After ttc for 4 years and at 41 years of age, we became pregnant after 1 round of IVF, and had our beautiful boy this past October. Can't thank them enough!     2/7/15 our son was born all thanks to the assistance of Dr. Sherbahn and his staff. Everyone was so helpful and here for all our questions, worries, etc. They want this for you just as much as you want this for you! Handled with pure professionalism and care from the very start! Thank you advanced fertility!          REQUEST PROGRAM INFO  Fill out my online form .     © 2017 Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago , S.C. All Rights Reserved    Home  Become a Patient  Contact Us  Privacy Policy             QUICK LINKS  Low cost fertility screening tests  Freeze eggs to preserve fertility  Our success rates  IVF cost  IVF money-back guarantees    Money back guarantee plans for frozen donor eggs  Day 5 blastocyst transfer  IVF steps - calendar  Infertility insurance issues/plans    CONTACT   Chicago   (773) 794-1818   Gurnee   (847) 662-1818   Crystal Lake   (815) 356-1818                       Menu      Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   X    Cancel  Join/Login    Close  Join Now  Log In  Subscribe  Getting Pregnant  Back Getting Pregnant  All Getting Pregnant Topics Ovulation Reproductive Age Maximizing Your Fertility Pre-Pregnancy Health Trying to Conceive Dealing With Infertility Genetics  Pregnancy  Back Pregnancy  All Pregnancy Topics Signs of Pregnancy Pregnancy Week-by-Week Giving Birth Labor & Delivery Pregnancy Symptoms Due Date Calculator Pregnancy Complications Fetal Development Gender Prediction Baby Showers  Baby Names  Back Baby Names  All Baby Names Topics Baby Girl Names Most Popular Names Names by Origin Twin Names Baby Boy Names Names by Religion Celebrity Baby Names Baby Name Quizzes  Baby  Back Baby  All Baby Topics Newborn Care Crying Baby Health Baby Development Safety Gear Breastfeeding Diapers Sleep Issues Feeding Nursery  Toddler  Back Toddler  All Toddler Topics Preschool Activities Behavior & Discipline Toddler Development Milestones Potty Training Starting School Health Safety Childcare  Big Kid  Back Big Kid  All Big Kid Topics Education Health Food & Nutrition Bullying & School Problems Child Development Safety Manners & Responsibility  Fun  Back Fun  All Fun Topics Birthdays Indoor Activities Outdoor Activities Arts & Crafts Printable Coloring Pages Kids' Entertainment Best Toys Holidays Family Vacation Ideas  Health  Back Health  All Health Topics ADD & ADHD Allergies Autism Cold & Flu Cough Down Syndrome Emergency Aid Fever Medication & Vitamins Obesity Rashes Stomach Aches Vaccines  Parenting  Back Parenting  All Parenting Topics Positive Parenting Parenting Style Celebrity Parents Family Dynamics Divorce Home Adoption Just for Mom Money Toy Recalls Stroller Recalls  Food  Back Food  All Food Topics Family Recipes Baby Food Toddler Finger Food Recipes Hints & Tips Healthy Eating Birthdays Holiday Recipes Quick & Easy Meals Food For Pregnant Women  Holiday  Back Holiday  All Holiday Topics 4th of July Halloween  Video  Shop  More  Back More Newsletters Contests ParentsIRL  Our Magazines  Back Our Magazines  Fit Pregnancy and Baby From the Latest Issue Emily Skye On Being Pregnant for the First Time: 'I Feel Like a Superhero!' 7 Soothing Cradles for Your Baby 5 Nursery Trends We Love  See More Pinterest Twitter  Parents  Subscribe to Parents From the Latest Issue 16 Tech Finds That Will Change Your Family’s Life 8 Night Time Favorite Baby Gear Boys vs Girls: How to Tailor Your Parenting Techniques  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Family Fun  Subscribe to Family Fun From the Latest Issue The 2018 FamilyFun Travel Awards Simplify Lunch: Mix-and-Match Ideas Your Kids Will Love 26 Fun (and Totally Extra) Ways to Decorate Your Dyed Easter Eggs  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Parents Latina From the Latest Issue How to Talk to Your Kids About Race 10 Best Kept Secrets from Cleaning Pros These Latina Moms Are Taking Over the Beauty Industry  See More Facebook  Ser Padres  Subscribe to Ser Padres From the Latest Issue 8 cosas que te dicen que tu hijo ya no es un bebÃ© (FOTOS) 6 mentiras que tu hijo necesita escuchar (FOTOS) GuÃ­a de disciplina online: corrige el comportamiento de tu hijo en 7 dÃ­as  See More Facebook Pinterest Twitter  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram   Home Getting Pregnant Dealing With Infertility Fertility Treatments 9 Myths and Facts About Boosting IVF 9 Myths and Facts About Boosting IVF  When you're trying to conceive through in vitro fertilization (IVF) you'll probably hear plenty of ideas about what you can do to boost your chances for success. We asked our experts to separate the myths from the facts. By Kate Rope from Parents Magazine  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Text  Email  Print  1  of 11     1  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Bananastock/ Jupiter When you're investing incredible amounts of time, money, and psychological capital into an IVF cycle, you want to do everything you can to make it a success. But you don't want to take up every hour of your day and every little space in your heart with another "must-do" that could make you feel guilty if you don't do it. We explored the Internet and then polled experts to get the facts on what can actually improve your chances, what could lower your success rate, and what is nothing more than a bunch of nonsense. Keep reading to find out. 10 Ways to Boost Your Fertility Are Your Maximizing Your Fertility? Getting Pregnant at Any Age  2  of 11 Myth #1: You have no control over the success of an IVF cycle.     2  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Buff Strickland Myth #1: You have no control over the success of an IVF cycle. Our take: False The results of an IVF cycle are to a large degree based upon a thorough evaluation of the couple, and there are a number of things your doctor can do before you begin to optimize success rates, says Glenn Schattman, M.D., associate professor at the Ronald O. Perelman and Claudia Cohen Center for Reproductive Medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University in New York City. The problem is, not every doctor or fertility center completes thorough evaluations. So be sure to ask your doctor these five questions before starting any IVF cycle: Is my uterus ready? Your uterine cavity should be evaluated with an ultrasound, X-ray, or hysteroscopy to look for fibroids, scar tissue, or polyps, all of which can act like an IUD in the uterus and prevent implantation. Are my tubes clear? Fluid in your fallopian tubes reduces IVF success rates by about 50 percent, says Dr. Schattman. If fluid is present, it's necessary to either block the tubes or remove them prior to starting IVF. Do I have enough eggs? A good ovarian reserve is key for IVF success. Dr. Schattman says two tests can help doctors estimate how many eggs you will get: Blood tests given on the second or third day of your cycle can analyze the level of follicle-stimulating hormone, and an ultrasound can determine an actual follicle count. Is my husband's sperm adequate? Dr. Schattman recommends having a sperm analysis done in a lab that also does IVF. That way, the quality of the sperm can be compared with what is needed for IVF success. Are any of my health habits going to affect our chances of success? Your doctor should evaluate the medications, supplements, and herbs you're taking, along with any alcohol or recreational drug use. One more thing you can do to increase your odds of success: Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep a night. A study by Korean researchers found that women who sleep to 7 to 8 hours per night are more likely to have a successful IVF cycle than women who sleep more than 9 or less than 6 hours a night. Win Baby Gear!  3  of 11 Myth #2: Stick to bed rest after embryo transfer.     3  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Laura Doss Myth #2: Stick to bed rest after embryo transfer. Our take: False There's no need to put your life on pause after the embryo transfer. Dr. Schattman says this idea is an absolute myth. In fact, a study done in Egypt found that women who were on bed rest for 24 hours following a transfer had a lower success rate compared with those who returned to their usual routine. Another study found that even a short period of bed rest (about 10 minutes) isn't helpful either. "I tell my patients to go home, have a glass of wine and a nice meal, and return to their normal activities," says Dr. Schattman, who believes that bed rest can actually be detrimental because it prevents normal fluctuations in heart rate and blood flow. Track and Predict Your Ovulation Find the Right Ovulation Kids and Fertility Monitors for You  4  of 11 Myth #3: Stress lowers IVF success rates.     4  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Lucky Business/Shutterstock Myth #3: Stress lowers IVF success rates. Our take: Maybe so A study published in the March 2014 issue of Human Reproduction followed 401 couples who were trying to conceive. Researchers analyzed two stress biomarkers (alpha-amylase and cortisol) in women and discovered that those with high levels of alpha-amylase were twice as likely to be at risk of infertility. Based on the research, scientists believe stress can contribute to infertility, though it's not necessarily a direct cause; other factors (like low sperm count and quality) could contribute to it. "We know the number-one reason insured people drop out of IVF treatment is stress, so anything you can do to reduce stress might keep you in treatment longer and help you get pregnant," says Alice Domar, Ph.D., executive director of the Domar Center for Mind/Body Health, which specializes in helping women with infertility through complementary therapies. A more thorough study of stress and its role on IVF success is still needed. Why Infertility Happens Common Conditions of Infertility  5  of 11 Myth #4: Acupuncture helps you get pregnant.     5  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest iStock Myth #4: Acupuncture helps you get pregnant. Our take: Maybe so The theory behind undergoing acupuncture during IVF is that it increases blood flow, which may help with embryo implantation. Studies are split: Half show no benefit and half show a significant benefit. So what should you believe? Dr. Domar categorizes complementary treatments like acupuncture for infertility into "the good, the benign, and the ugly" and places acupuncture under "good," because "it's cheap, it has no side effects, and there is data to support its efficacy so there is no reason not to try it." At the very least, she says, "It can help you feel more relaxed and optimistic." Even though there isn't research to back up their efficacy, Dr. Domar also considers yoga and massage to be benign because they can also help with your mental state. "If you enjoy yoga and massage and you can afford it," she says, "go for it." If, on the other hand, adding one more appointment to a busy day will do nothing more than increase your stress level or make you feel like you are failing to do everything in your power to achieve IVF success, Dr. Grifo advises patients to just let it go. Does Acupuncture for Infertility Work?      6  of 11 6 Common Fertility Mistakes   6  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Trying to get pregnant? Follow our expert's advice to side-step potential problems to boost your chances of conception. 8 Ways to Get Pregnancy Faster Track Your Basal Body Temperature  7  of 11 Myth #5: A clown in the recovery room will help.     7  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Alexandra Grablewski Myth #5: A clown in the recovery room will help. Our take: Can't hurt! Did you hear the one about the clown who walked into the recovery room after an embryo transfer? It's not a joke. It happened in Israel, where a study of 219 women found that those who were entertained by a "medical clown" after embryo transfer were twice as likely to get pregnant as those who were not. The lead researcher wanted to test the idea that laughter can help lower stress, and although it was a small study, the researchers are hoping the results will spur other fertility clinics to try out "clown care." "If you want to have an afternoon with a clown, go for it," says Dr. Grifo. "There's no harm. You're not going to laugh your embryos out." Of course, a funny movie might be a cheaper and easier way to go. Supporting a Friend Through Infertility  8  of 11 Myth #6: Melatonin can help improve egg quality.     8  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Jason Donnelly Myth #6: Melatonin can help improve egg quality. Our take: The evidence looks good, but be careful. A very small Japanese study in 2010 investigated the idea that melatonin (yep, the same kind we sometimes use to help us fall asleep at night) may improve egg quality by reducing oxidative damage. Researchers looked at the existence of a particular chemical compound that can cause oxidative stress and potentially reduce egg quality. They found that when there were higher natural levels of melatonin present, there were lower levels of the oxidizing agent. Then they recruited 100 women who had failed an IVF cycle because of poor egg quality and gave half of them 3 milligrams of melatonin before their next IVF cycle. The results? Fifty percent of the eggs of the women who took melatonin could be successfully fertilized, compared with only 23 percent of the eggs of the women who did not take melatonin. When the eggs were transplanted, 19 percent of the women in the melatonin group became pregnant, compared with 10 percent in the control group. Further studies have confirmed the fact that melatonin may be useful in infertility treatment. A 2014 review of nine studies in the Journal of Ovarian Research believes that melatonin has the potential to be a treatment for fertility. But the research also cautions that "melatonin use in infertility treatment still lacks adequate evidence to recommend routine use." Bottom line: Talk to your doctor, and don't start taking melatonin without your doctor's knowledge or approval. Best Vitamins and Nutrients to Help Conception Win Baby Gear!  9  of 11 Myth #7: Herbal remedies can help with IVF.     9  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Photo by Devon Jarvis Myth #7: Herbal remedies can help with IVF. Our Take: False There's no data showing that herbs are safe to take while you're trying to conceive. "We have no idea how they interact with fertility drugs," says Dr. Domar. One study conducted in Denmark found that out of 800 women, those using complementary and alternative therapies (which mostly consisted of herbs) lowered their chance of pregnancy by 30 percent. Add to that the fact that many herbs come from overseas, with detectable levels of mercury and no guarantee of safety, and that some are inadvisable to take during pregnancy -- herbs are a dangerous proposition. Dr. Grifo agrees: "We don't know about herbs and what their impact is, and some of them affect blood clotting." He advises his patients not to "keep secrets from your doctor. It can have serious consequences." Fertility Boosters: Are They Safe?  10  of 11 Myth #8: Special diets can boost your chances of getting pregnant.     10  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Ariwasabi/Shutterstock Myth #8: Special diets can boost your chances of getting pregnant. Our take: False There is no evidence that any specific diet (be it eating pineapple every day or never eating gluten) will increase your chances of success. That said, all of our experts recommend following a healthy, balanced diet full of whole grains, lean protein, and fruits and vegetables to maximize your health and the health of the baby you are trying to conceive through IVF. It's also important to get enough vitamin D each day. A 2014 study of 335 women found that vitamin D deficiency was possibly related to poor IVF outcomes. Although more research is still needed, implantation and pregnancy could be less likely to occur in women with adequate vitamin D levels. Maintaining your weight within a certain normal range is also important. "You don't want to go into an IVF cycle morbidly obese, overweight, or seriously underweight," says Dr. Domar. Women with body mass indices of over 35 or under 20 do experience lower pregnancy rates. 7 Foods That Can Help You Get Pregnant  11  of 11 Myth #9: If IVF doesn't work, there is something you could have done better.     11  of 11   Facebook  Pinterest Corbis Photography/Veer Myth #9: If IVF doesn't work, there is something you could have done better. Our take: False In any given cycle, the chance of IVF success varies, depending on your age and your personal health circumstances. Success rates can be as high as 41 percent, but there's not much you can do to improve that number. "Patients have to realize is that there is very little they can do that will make a difference in terms of the outcome," Dr. Grifo says. "But there is a lot they can do in terms of how they feel about the process. What they should understand is that when they are doing IVF, they are doing everything they can possibly do. They should feel really good about that." So keep on thinking positively, and ideally you'll achieve IVF success without trying out every myth you hear. All content on this Web site, including medical opinion and any other health-related information, is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual situation. Use of this site and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship. Always seek the direct advice of your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others. How to Conceive When You've Been Infertile More in Getting Pregnant      19 Celebrities Who Used Surrogates       10 Common Baby-Making Mistakes       Get Pregnant Faster: Your 7-Step Plan       20 Things All Couples Should Do Before Getting Pregnant       10 Ways He Can Have Better Baby-Making Sperm       10+ Ways to Boost Your Fertility          Shop Links        Parenting Books  Home Theater Systems  Headphones  Activity Trackers  Video Games  Women's Shoes  Humidifiers  Rugs  Tablets & E-Readers  Playroom Furniture  Laptop Computers  Shower Curtains  Desks  Bedroom Sets  Earrings  Security Cameras  Air Purifiers  Laptops  Shop More    Your Account Help Update Your Account Member Benefits Newsletter Customer Service Log in Join now! Log out   Parents.com About Us Baby Names Pregnancy Tracker Baby Development Recalls Video Sitemap   Parents Magazine Subscribe Digital Editions Gift Subscriptions Renew Subscriptions Customer Service Advertise with Us From Our Sponsors Affiliate Program   Parents Network Parents Parenting Family Circle Ser Padres Fit Pregnancy   Follow Parents.com  Facebook  Pinterest  Twitter  Instagram      Meredith Women's Network |   © Copyright 2017  Meredith Corporation . All Rights Reserved  Privacy Policy - Your California Rights  Data Policy  Terms of Service     AdChoices      close                               Search for:        Call 1-888-990-2727  Contact ARC        Home  About Us   ARC © Services  Patient Services Team  Patient Testimonials  The ARC © Management Team  Board of Directors  Media & Press   Press  Fertility Blog    Careers  Contact Us    Professionals   ARC Telehealth  The ARC ® Referral Management System (ARMS)  ARC Employer Program    ARC Treatment Packages   The ARC ® Success Program  The ARC® Cycle Plus Programs  ARC ® Egg Freezing Package  Genetic Testing  IUI Packages  The Tubal Reversal Option  ARC ® Egg Donor Packages  Additional Treatment Options  Advantages of Multiple Cycle Treatment Package    ARC Affordable Options   ARC © Financing  The ARC ® Pharmacy Plan    Resources   Infertility Diagnosis   Female Infertility  Male Infertility    Infertility Tutorial   Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  What is Infertility?  Prevention  When is the Right Time for Treatment  Evaluation  Diagnosis  Fertility Treatments  What is IVF?  Hormonal Therapy  ARC ® Fertility Glossary    Family Building   Lesbian Couples  Gay Male Couples  Single Women  Single Men  Adoption    Become an Egg Donor  FAQs: The ARC ® Fertility Program  Fertility Articles   Fertility Overview  Infertility Treatment Costs  Women’s Health Care  Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome  Fertility Preservation  New Trends in Health    Fertility Calculators   ARC ® Fertility Calculator  The ARC ® Infertility Stress Test  ARC ® Affordability Estimator    ARC ® Fertility Videos  ARC ® Fertility Blog  Cross Border IVF  Useful Resources – Infertility Links   Educational Resources  Grants & Scholarships  Mind & Body Wellness  Professional Associations      Find a Doctor/Clinic   Spotlight: Practice of the Month  Find a Doctor/Clinic Near You  ARC ® Fertility Clinics    Contact                Probability of Success with IVF Treatments         Home » Patient Resources » Infertility Tutorial » Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  The probability of success with IVF treatments depends upon a number of factors like the age of the woman, the cause of infertility, the quality of eggs retrieved and the quality of the semen.  “The single most consistent variable affecting ovarian reserve is the woman’s age. This is because a woman is born with all the eggs she will ever have. In most women in their 20s about 2/3 of the eggs are genetically normal or balanced. However, there will be some that are genetically abnormal or unbalanced. It appears that the best eggs are ovulated first. The older a woman is, the fewer genetically balanced eggs she has left to respond to fertility drugs. This age relationship holds true even in the fertile population. At age 35 about 40-50% of eggs are chromosomally normal, at age 40 about 10-20% and then much fewer after that. Therefore, in older women fewer normal embryos are available for implantation into the uterus. Hence, healthy women over 35 are less fertile than their younger counterparts. Women 40 and over may have only a 20% live birth rate with IVF treatment using their own eggs, even though several embryos are replaced into the uterus.” Read more… – Gail F. Whitman-Elia, MD, MPH, HCLD  The national averages (2012) show the following probabilities:     Female age  Live birth rate per retrieval    < 35  40.7%    35-37  31.3%    38-40  22.2%    41-42  11.8%     The success rate for having a baby depends a great deal upon the type of treatment e.g. IVF treatment or donor egg etc.  You will see in the table below that, after a certain age, the probability of successfully having a baby increases considerably with a donor.     Treatment type  Live birth per transfer    Fresh transfer  56.6%    Frozen/thaw transfer  37.2%     For more information on success probabilities please view results from Society for Assisted Reproductive Technologies (SART) .  Want to Predict Whether IVF Might Work for You, and What it Costs? To Calculate Your Success Rate and Affordability Log On…       Contact ARC for a Fertility Specialist      Quick Links Contact Us  Find Local ARC Fertility Doctor  Patient Resources  Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy     Contact Information  Advanced Reproductive Care, Inc.   20195 Stevens Creek Boulevard, Suite 100  Cupertino , CA  95014   ARC Toll Free: 1-888-990-2727              ARC Affiliates www.reproductivefacts.org  www.fertilitytool.com           © 2018 Advanced Reproductive Care. All Rights Reserved.  Call ARC ® Patient Services at: 1-888-990-2727            MENU     Home  About Us   ARC © Services  Patient Services Team  Patient Testimonials  The ARC © Management Team  Board of Directors  Media & Press   Press  Fertility Blog    Careers  Contact Us    Professionals   ARC Telehealth  The ARC ® Referral Management System (ARMS)  ARC Employer Program    ARC Treatment Packages   The ARC ® Success Program  The ARC® Cycle Plus Programs  ARC ® Egg Freezing Package  Genetic Testing  IUI Packages  The Tubal Reversal Option  ARC ® Egg Donor Packages  Additional Treatment Options  Advantages of Multiple Cycle Treatment Package    ARC Affordable Options   ARC © Financing  The ARC ® Pharmacy Plan    Resources   Infertility Diagnosis   Female Infertility  Male Infertility    Infertility Tutorial   Probability of Success with IVF Treatments  What is Infertility?  Prevention  When is the Right Time for Treatment  Evaluation  Diagnosis  Fertility Treatments  What is IVF?  Hormonal Therapy  ARC ® Fertility Glossary    Family Building   Lesbian Couples  Gay Male Couples  Single Women  Single Men  Adoption    Become an Egg Donor  FAQs: The ARC ® Fertility Program  Fertility Articles   Fertility Overview  Infertility Treatment Costs  Women’s Health Care  Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome  Fertility Preservation  New Trends in Health    Fertility Calculators   ARC ® Fertility Calculator  The ARC ® Infertility Stress Test  ARC ® Affordability Estimator    ARC ® Fertility Videos  ARC ® Fertility Blog  Cross Border IVF  Useful Resources – Infertility Links   Educational Resources  Grants & Scholarships  Mind & Body Wellness  Professional Associations      Find a Doctor/Clinic   Spotlight: Practice of the Month  Find a Doctor/Clinic Near You  ARC ® Fertility Clinics    Contact                                                                                 March 27: Happy Easter Learn More      Call Us 1300 - Fertility (337845)     Free Fertility Consultation                                 Menu ≡ ╳    Getting Started   Getting Started  If you are under the age of 35 and have been trying to conceive for at least 12 months, or over 35 and trying to conceive for at least 6 months, it is recommended that you seek assistance   FAQ  Getting Started  Register For Free Information Evening  Why Choose Us?   Schedule Your Free Fertility Consultation  Free Infertility Books and Resources  Conception Stories     Our Team   Our Team  Our team of nurses, scientists, counsellors and fertility specialists will support you during your journey and help you achieve your dream of having a family.   Locations   Sunshine Coast  Bundaberg     Fertility Doctors  Nurses  Scientists  Administration  Counsellors  Complementary Therapists     Treatments   Treatments  We offer patients a comprehensive range of fertility treatments from semen analysis through to genetic testing of embryos.   Bulk Billed IVF  Low Cost IVF  IUI  IVF  ICSI   Using Donor  Donating Sperm, Eggs, Embryos  PCOS  Surgical Sperm Collection   All Treatment Options     Bulk Billed IVF   Costs   Success Rates   Contact                        Home > Fertility Solutions Blog > Success Rates of First Cycle of IVF    Success Rates of First Cycle of IVF              If you are needing to have In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) to start or extend your family, you should know a few facts and statistics about the procedure.  It is important that you are not under the impression that IVF is guaranteed, because that, unfortunately is not the case. Each individuals situation  is different. While there is an overall 50 percent success rate, the procedure may not work for you.  Some individuals are extremely lucky and get pregnant on their first cycle of IVF, the reality is that most don’t. The only way you can find out if IVF will be successful for you is to try a few cycles.  IVF Success Rates   With infertility rates on the rise, more and more couples are wondering how successful In Vitro Fertilization is. Couples and individuals who have the IVF procedure done in Australia are are more likely to become pregnant than any other location. It is a fact that the highest success rates from around the world happen in Australia . When you are over the age of 40, you can expect your chances of success to decrease by at least 20 percent, in comparison to females who 30 or younger. Males do not see a major decrease until they reach the age of 50 although there are thought to be other issues associated with older men fathering children such as behavioural disorders noted in the children.  Getting Pregnant After One Cycle of IVF   The great news about In Vitro Fertilization is that the procedure can be successful after one cycle, however, this is not the case with everyone.  Females under the age of 30 have a 46 percent chance of getting pregnant after their first IVF cycle (this could mean a few embryo transfers – some of them frozen), while females between the ages of 40 and 43 have a less than 12 percent chance of success. There is a 38 percent chance of getting pregnant if you are between the ages of 34 and 40 . If you are a female between the ages of 30 and 33, you have a 58 percent chance of getting pregnant after your first IVF cycle. Specialists will give you options and recommendations that can help increase your chances of getting pregnant after your first cycle of IVF.  Tips to Increase Your Success Rate  There are some tips that can help you increase your chances of becoming pregnant once you have In Vitro Fertilization, even after the first cycle. The younger you are when you try IVF, the more likely you are to get pregnant. For example, a female’s egg quality is better when she is younger than 35. You should also do some research and choose a clinic that has a high success rate. This does not mean you are going to get pregnant with ease, but at least you know this clinic is knowledgeable and successful with the IVF procedures they perform. The specialist at the clinic should explain the step-by-step procedure of the IVF process with you. Remember that these tips are just to help increase your odds, but they are not guaranteed to work.  Your IVF success rate will depend on many factors including your age, health and fertility issues.  You could be one of the lucky couples who become pregnant after the first embryo transfer. If this in not the case, do not get discouraged – the research has suggested it takes on average 6 embryo transfers before a pregnancy is achieved!  Please contact us if you would like to learn more about your chances of becoming pregnant through IVF or our other assisted fertility options.                 Book A Free  Consultation   Have A Question?    Get Our Newsletter                             Fertility Solutions  Fertility Solutions Sunshine Coast  23 Elsa Wilson Drive Suite 22 Buderim QLD 4556 1300 337 845 
              (1300 FERTILITY) (07) 5478 2482  enquiries@fssc.com.au   Fertility Solutions Bundaberg  89 Woongarra Street Bundaberg QLD 
              4670 1300 337 845 (1300 FERTILITY) (07) 4151 5222  bundaberg@fssc.com.au      Popular Resources Baby Gallery  Blog  Brochures & Factsheets  News & Events  IVF Cost Factors  Patient Feedback Form  Prerequisite Tests  Free Infertility Books & Medication  Resource     Donor Programs Donating Sperm  Eggs  Embryos  Using Donor Sperm  Eggs  Embryos     Treatment Options IVF  ICSI  All Treatment Options        Copyright © Fertility Solutions. All Rights Reserved.    SEO & Online Marketing By Mike Munter SEO | Web Design & Maintenance By Simple SEO Group        Privacy Policy  Sitemap  Links  Service Areas  Glossary  GP Resources  Careers                                                   FREE Information Evenings  Learn what to do when you’re trying to conceive and what to do if it’s not working.  CLICK HERE FOR EVENT DATES & LOCATIONS     ×     