             Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions  Search form  Search  Vitality How to Live Better, Longer   6 Must-Have Tips To Awaken Skin All Winter Long Are you ready for the cold dark days that come with Daylight Saving Time? Prepare for winter skin before turning your clock back on Sunday.   To Lose Weight, Skip Dinner A Few Days A Week New research suggests that skipping dinner helps you burn more fat in the evening and may even help with weight loss.   What Is Aspirin — And Should You Take It Daily? The main ingredient in aspirin, salicin, is the oldest pain reliever in history, but it took time and science before it became the drug we recognize today. Under the Hood Behavior, Neuroscience & Your Brain   Runner's High? You're Growing New Brain Cells Your brain creates new cell growth and repair during aerobic exercises, such as running.   Science Explains Why Songs Get Stuck In Your Head Science explains why you can't get that catchy song out of your head.   Sunshine Actually Makes You Happy In a recent study, people reported more mental distress when the days were shorter and there was less sunshine. Innovation Technology & the Business of Medicine   These 2 Genes May Predict Your Breast Cancer Survival Rate Findings from a new study could help more women to overcome breast cancer.   'Mess-Free' Period Sex Is Now A Thing A new product promises to make sex during menstruation less of a mess.   We’re Closer Than Ever To Finding Cause Of Autism Researchers discovered hundreds of genes that could be connected with autism spectrum disorder. The Hill Healthcare, Policy & Governance   Veterans Have A Problem With Donald Trump’s Comment About PTSD Veterans did not respond well to Donald Trump's comments on PTSD, a common mental health disorder many soldiers face.   Countries Should Adopt Sugar Tax, Says World Health Organization The WHO wants countries to start taxing sugary drinks, and use the revenue to fight health problems sugar may worsen.   Where Do Hillary Clinton And Donald Trump Stand On Abortion? Here's what the presidential candidates have said on the controversial topic of abortion and reproductive rights. The Grapevine Breaking News and Trends   Condom-Free Male Birth Control Shot May Soon Be A Thing A male birth control shot may be on the horizon, and may provide competition for another product being tested — the male pill.   Will Someone Survive A Gunshot Wound? New Tool Could Answer Researchers have developed a new tool that has predicted with 96 percent accuracy whether people would survive a gunshot wound to the brain.   An Easier Way To Screen For Birth Defects May Be In Our Future Wayne State University researchers have developed a test that may be able to screen for birth defects as early as five weeks into pregnancy. Weird Medicine Science is Stranger Than Fiction   Would Eating Human Brains Make You Sick? Have a craving for human brains this Halloween? We don't suggest eating them.   4 Real Medical Illnesses That Were Blamed On Witchcraft Throughout history, people have attributed scary looking and unfamiliar illnesses to dark forces, including witches and demons.   You Wouldn't Expect These 6 Things To Cause Hallucinations People are generally aware of the most common causes of hallucinations, like schizophrenia and a really high fever. But lesser known are the more rare causes; here are six you probably haven't heard about. US / World  US / World Consumer News  Consumer News Policy / Biz  Policy / Biz Science / Tech  Science / Tech Drugs  Drugs Healthy Living  Healthy Living         Vitality Repeated Use Of Morning-After Pill: Plan B Effects On Breast Cancer, Fertility  Sep 29, 2016 06:40 PM By  Lizette Borreli   @lizcelineb  l.borreli@medicaldaily.com         This is how taking Plan B more than once affects your risk for fertility and breast cancer.  Photo courtesy of Pixabay, Public Domain    Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail You're making out with your boyfriend, clothes begin to come off, and before you know it, you've had sex — unprotected. After the heat of the moment wears off, you rush to the pharmacy, grab over-the-counter Plan B One-Step, and swallow the pill to prevent pregnancy. But what happens if you take Plan B more than once? Plan B is the most common levonorgestrel-only pill that only contains progestin — a synthetic version of the naturally-occurring hormone progesterone found in some birth control pills. It is designed to prevent pregnancy. The special formulation of hormones should be taken within 3 days (72 hours) of unprotected sex or birth control failure to reduce the risk of pregnancy up to 89 percent, according to Plan B . However, the sooner you take it, the more effective it is. It works by either temporarily stopping the release of an egg from the ovary, preventing fertilization, or preventing a fertilized egg from attaching to the uterus. Plan B: Short-Term Side Effects Irregular Periods Using emergency contraception, like Plan B,  comes with short-term effects like painful menstruation and nausea. The pills might lead to unexpected bleeding (which is not dangerous, and should be resolved by your next period, according to Princeton University ). It might also cause your next period to come early or late. Some women may experience spotting a few days after taking Plan B One-Step. Menstrual bleeding patterns are often irregular among women using progestin only contraception. A 2010 study comparing levonorgestrel and ulipristal acetate (ella) showed generally similar side effects for the two medications. Approximately 20 percent of women in each group experienced headaches following EC treat; up to 14 percent experienced painful menstruation; and up to 12 percent experienced nausea. Women who took ulipristal acetate had their next period on average 2.1 days later than expected, while women taking levonorgestrel began their next period 1.2 days earlier than expected, but the duration of periods was not affected. So, what are its long-term effects? Plan B: Continuous Use Fertility A common misconception is that frequent use of Plan B can affect a woman's fertility. However, there are no health risks to using Plan B as much as you need. "It's not necessarily bad to use as a regular form of birth control because it is simply a higher dose of a regular progestin-only birth control pill," said gynecologist Diana Hoppe to Shape Magazine . Moreover, "oral emergency contraception may be used more than once, even within the same menstrual cycle" according to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Simply put, there's no reason to believe it would have any effect on fertility, unless possibly if you begin trying to become pregnant immediately after taking the pill. There are no irreversible effects on fertility following exposures to levonorgestrel or progestins in general. Moreover, the biggest risk of taking Plan B multiple times is an eventual unintended pregnancy. Plan B prevents pregnancy about 75 percent of the time if no other birth control pill was used, compared to the birth control pill or IUD that are around 98 or 99 percent effective, respectively. Breast Cancer There are two types of birth control pills available in the U.S. — oral contraceptives that contain man-made versions of estrogen and progesterone, and the mini pill, which only contains progestin. Naturally occurring estrogen and progesterone can influence the development and growth of some cancers, according to the National Cancer Institute . Therefore, because some birth control pills contain female hormones, researchers are interested in establishing whether there is any link between these widely use contraceptives and cancer risk. In 2005, the World Health Organization (WHO) officially classified oral contraceptives as a Class 1 carcinogen. Plan B is composed of levonorgestrel, which is a potent progestin found in some of today’s birth control pills. A 2006 study published in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings noted that taking the birth control pill before pregnancy results in a 44 percent increased risk of developing breast cancer prior to age 50. The study analysis noted that 21 out of 23 retrospective studies have shown an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. On the other hand, oral contraceptive use has consistently been found to be linked to a reduced risk of ovarian cancer. In a previous study , researchers found that the longer a woman used oral contraceptives, the more her risk of ovarian cancer decreased. The risk decreased by 10 to 12 percent after 1 year of use; approximately 50 percent after 5 years of use. The research regarding oral contraceptives and cancer risks remains inconsistent and still warrants further research. The Consensus Plan B is an excellent alternative as an emergency contraception when preventing unwanted pregnancies. However, it’s not designed to be used as a regular form of contraception.Taking Plan B twice in a couple of months won’t do much harm. Although docs agree there’s no clear danger from taking Plan B more than once or twice, it’s not recommended as a replacement for regular birth control. "If someone is having sex even just three to four times a month, you're still talking about a couple hundred dollars a month," said Streicher. Talk to your gynecologist for a healthier everyday alternative for safe sex.  Comment  Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail                     Most Read                Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions   About Contact Advertising Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Subscribe  © 2018 Newsweek Media Group All rights reserved. Medical Daily is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendation. Read more .                     U.S. Edition U.S. Edition International Middle East 日本 한국 Pakistan Polska  Tue, Apr 10, 2018  Sign In  Subscribe    Search form  Search  U.S. World Business Tech & Science Culture Sports Health Opinion Green Rankings      How Plan B Works: Six Things You Always Wondered About Emergency Contraception By  Newsweek   On 8/25/09 at 10:16 AM   Share         News by Sarah Kliff  Thanks in part to Plan B&apos;s complicated history, there are a lot of myths and misunderstandings about emergency contraception. And despite the fact that the pill has been on the market since 1999, there&apos;s stillsome confusion about how it works. First, don&apos;t confuse Plan B,which prevents pregnancy, with RU-486, the pill used in a medical abortion.  “They’re entirely and absolutely different,” says James Trussell, who directs Princeton&apos;s Office of Population Research and runs Not-2-Late , a Web site and hotline devoted to emergency contraception.  RU-486contains a synthetic steroid called mifepristone, which interferes with the body’s production of progesterone necessary to sustain pregnancy. Plan B has nothing to do with progesterone. Instead, it inhibits or delays ovulation. Plan B is not effective if the process of implantation has begun. But even sex-savvy women and men who have that fact down can get confused about the basics of Plan B. That&apos;s why we&apos;ve put together a list of some hard facts about how it works, how it doesn&apos;t, and what you should know: Recommended Slideshows 51 In Pictures: The 50 Most Powerful Military Forces in the World 44 In Pictures: Every U.S. President Ranked From Best to Worst 51 In Pictures: Top 50 U.S. Cities Ranked by Quality of Life And Average Salary You don&apos;t need to take the pills 12 hours apart Plan B comes with two pills and instructions to take “the second tablet …12 hours after the first dose.” Not a problem if you get the pharmacy at 9 a.m., but a little more inconvenient if your schedule—sexual or otherwise—finds you in need of emergency contraception (EC) after noon. Trussell assures us that you needn&apos;t stay up all night or set your alarm for some ungodly hour: Plan B is just as effective when both pills are taken at once. In fact, the new Plan B One-Step has the same active ingredients of two Plan B pills—1.5mg of a progestin called levonorgestrel—in one tablet. Most EC sold in other countries is a single-pill product. So why have we been advised to space Plan B 12 hours apart? Because it was originally tested as a two-pill product with lower levonorgestrel doses. “Then people said, maybe we could put them all in one, but the danger there is that you might have more side effects,” says Trussell. “But it showed no side effects and the efficacy was the same.” High doses of your birth control MAY substitute for EC in a pinch  Keep up with this story and more by subscribing now It’s not ideal, but it&apos;s doable─if you have the right birth control. Each birth-control brand has different levels of the active ingredients, only some of which can be used as an emergency contraceptive. But there are a decent number that can: flip to page 23 of Trussell’s review article to see if yours is among them. You’ll see that some oral contraceptives can replicate birth control with two pills, but with some it takes six. However, Trussell cautions that studies have show Plan B—which is a progestin-only pill—to be more effective EC than oral contraceptives, which are combined progestin and estrogen pills. So all things considered, he’d still recommend Plan B over an increased dose of oral contraceptives. There won&apos;t be blood  After taking Plan B, some people expect to see spotting, thinking perhaps that the drug might affect the uterine lining and kickstart an early period. This isn&apos;t the case, though some women will experience bleeding after taking Plan B. Trussell describes it as “not rare” but also “not common.” The bleeding is called a “withdrawal bleed” and is not menstruation. Rather, it’s caused by the change in hormone levels. It’s more common when Plan B is taken earlier in the cycle (why it’s more common earlier in the cycle, says Trussell, is unknown). (Not-2-Late has more information on bleeding.) Plan B can alter when the next period occurs: it can be a delayed or come early. This is also related to changes in hormone levels. You can protect yourself for the rest of the month If you&apos;re taking Plan B because you missed several oral contraceptives and don&apos;t want to risk it (a smart move) you don’t have to wait for your next period to get back on track. In fact, he makers of Plan B and Plan B One-Step recommend “regular method of contraception be started immediately after.” Trussell adds that, while you can start an oral contraceptive the day after EC, you still need to use condoms or abstain for seven days, since oral contraceptives aren’t effective until you’ve been taking them for a week. There&apos;s more time than you think (but don&apos;t delay) Plan B should definitely be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex. That’ll increase the odds you’re taking Plan B early enough to inhibit ovulation, thus decreasing the odds of pregnancy. While the pill is indicated for use up to 72 hours after unprotected sex, some studies have shown Plan B to be effective up through 120 hours. Its still better to aim for earlier, but Plan B is not completely ineffective after three days. “There’s no magic difference between 72 and 73 hours,” says Trussell. “The longer you wait the less effective it appears to be. But it’s still much more effective than a prayer.” Amen to that. EC&apos;s Effectiveness Does Not Decrease With Use The more one takes Plan B after unprotected sex, the more likely it is that you’ll get pregnant─but not because the pill is less effective: the odds of a pregnancy after Plan B are still pretty slim. It reduces the risk of pregnancy by 89 percent. Trussell draws an analogy to the odds of crashing a car: “If you make 1,000 trips, your chances of getting into a car wreck are more than if you take one trip. It’s a cumulative process.” Likewise, the more you use Plan B, the more likely it becomes that you’ll have a failure, even with Plan B’s success rate remaining the same. Request Reprint or Submit Correction         Most Read     Sign up for our Newsletter  Sign up  Update your preferences »   Latest Slideshows   51  50 Poorest Members of Congress   51  Royal Family Photo Album: Prince William, Kate Middleton and Children   55  In Pictures: Mexico Border Patrol Agents Step Up Illegal Immigrant Arrests   51  50 Highest Paid American Sports Stars     Choose a Membership That's Perfect for You!   Print & Digital  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Print Only  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Digital Only  Free access to 40+ digital editions  Website access  Daily Newsletter  Subscribe        © 2018 Newsweek LLC About Us Corrections Contact Us Newsweek Media Group Travel Advertise Copyright Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Archive                      Text Only    Full media Version         Get EC 
          NOW | INFO about EC | Q&A about EC | About 
          Us | For Providers | Home   Get 
          EC NOW   INFO about EC   Q&A about EC  About Us   For Providers   Home       Find a Morning After Pill Provider Near You     The Emergency Contraception Website - Your website for the "Morning After"     Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About...   Side Effects  When should I expect my next period after I take emergency contraceptive pills?  You should have a normal period within the next month after taking 
            emergency contraceptive 
            pills (also called " morning 
            after pills " or "day after pills"). Sometimes, 
            emergency contraception 
            can change the length of your monthly menstrual cycle, making your 
            next period come as much as a week earlier or a week later than usual. 
            Some women also find that the hormones in the pills can cause unexpected bleeding , but this is 
            not a common or serious side effect. If your next period is late, 
            you might consider getting a pregnancy 
            test .  Researchers have conducted three studies designed specifically to find 
            out how progestin-only 
            emergency contraceptive pills (like Plan B One-Step or Next Choice )  affect women's bleeding patterns. 
            Although the results were somewhat different, each found there were 
            often changes in a woman's monthly menstrual cycle.  In the first study, women who took the full dose (1.5 mg   levonorgestrel) of this emergency contraceptive at one time in the first three weeks 
            of their monthly menstrual cycles got their period much sooner than 
            expected – and earlier than women who did not take the pills. 
            The study also found that the earlier in their cycle women took the 
            pills, the sooner they got their period. Women who took the full dose 
            of emergency contraception 
            in the fourth week of their cycle got their period at the usual time, 
            but it lasted longer than normal. The ECPs had no effect on the duration of the post-treatment menstrual cycle, but the second period was prolonged. Intermenstrual bleeding was uncommon after ECP use, although more common than among women who had not taken ECPs.    The second study found that women who took the full dose (1.5 mg   levonorgestrel) of this emergency contraceptive at one time within two days before or 
            after ovulation (when the egg is released) got their periods when 
            they expected them. But, on average, women started their periods a 
            day earlier when they used emergency 
            contraception more than two days before ovulation, and their periods 
            generally started two days later if they took the pills more than 
            two days after ovulation. Menstrual period duration increased significantly when ECPs were taken after three days before ovulation in both the treatment and post-treatment cycles. The duration of the post-treatment menstrual cycle remained significantly longer when ECPs were taken more than two days after ovulation. During the treatment cycle, 15% of women experienced intermenstrual bleeding; this was significantly more common when ECPs were taken in the preovulatory phase.    A third study examined the effects of two 0.75 mg levonorgestrel pills taken 12 hours apart. When taken in the follicular phase, ECPs significantly shortened the cycle when compared with usual cycle length; no effect on cycle length was found when ECPs were taken in the periovulatory or luteal phase. The post-treatment cycle length was the same as the usual cycle length.    A study comparing levonorgestrel (like Plan B One-Step, Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice or Levonorgestrel Tablets ) and ulipristal acetate ( ella) found that women taking ulipristal acetate had their next period on average 2.1 days later than expected, while women taking levonorgestrel began their next period 1.2 days earlier than expected, but the duration of periods was not affected.  More details on these studies and bleeding patterns overall can be 
            found in this thorough and up-to-date academic 
            review  of the medical and social science literature on emergency contraception.  ----------   Back to QUESTIONS     Español |  Arabic    My Story           Print this page      This website is operated by the Office 
        of Population Research at Princeton 
        University and by the Association 
        of Reproductive Health Professionals and has no connection with any 
        pharmaceutical company or for-profit organization.      About Us .  EC 
        in the News .  For Providers 
        .  Links .  Site 
        Map .  Privacy            I Need to Get Emergency Contraception NOW  Where can I get Emergency Contraception 
          ("the morning after pill") in the US?  What 
			    brands of birth control pills can be used for EC (in any country)?   Information About Emergency Contraception  The Basics of Emergency Contraception  Emergency Contraceptive Pills 
          ("morning after pills")  The Copper Intrauterine Device ("IUD 
          or Copper T")   Q&A about Emergency Contraception  Well-known Morning After Pill brands  Plan B One-Step . Next Choice One Dose . Postinor . ella      What is Emergency Contraception?  How does emergency contraception work?   Is the Day After Pill 
          the same as the Morning After Pill?   How long do 
          I have to take a "day after pill"?  Can I take it the day before?    What are the side 
          effects of the Morning After Pill?  What are the side effects 
          of progestin-only ECPs?  What are the side effects 
          of combined ECPs?   The difference between the Morning After Pill and the Abortion 
          Pill  How the morning after pill works  How the Abortion Pill works (also 
          known as RU-486 or Mifeprex)        © 2017 Office of Population Research & Association of Reproductive Health Professionals  website design by DDA           EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Community Home   COMMUNITY           Birth Clubs    Groups    Mom Answers    My Stuff    Photos     Shopping          Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home   /   Getting Pregnant Q&A;    /  Getting Pregnant Q&A;         Could I Be Pregnant? Q&A;    Getting Pregnant Q&A;    Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;                                Can I get Pregnant after taking Plan B?      I was on my new birth control for two days when the condom broke while my husband and i we having sex. I took Plan B 24 hrs later. what are my chances of getting pregnant. We have a 3 month old and I can't have a baby again this soon!! I'm soo scared!                  mrs_goose    Asked 2/24/08         Answer this question        Mom Answers ( 7 )   Best answers   Most recent      BEST ANSWER   I came back here to answer my own question, I was really looking for updates from others when I was asking the questions so here goes. Plan b is supposed to stall your ovulation. However if you already ovulated then it will try to stop the egg from fertilizing. If that has happened as well then it will make it so that the egg cannot implant and thus make you pregnant. If all of those things have already happened by the time you take Plan b then you are pregnant and plan b will do nothing for you. It does not give an abortion, it is like a super dose of birth control.
Now to answer the question I had asked before, can you become pregnant after unprotected (or failed protection) sex, if you decide to use plan b. Yes you can, I did. I got + on 3 hpt's and 2 - on doctor tests, but I insisted on a blood test which was + same day as the last -. I am now 6 weeks pregnant with baby #4. We were not planning on another baby but will welcome our sneaky lil surprise with love as always                 confusedturtle    Answered 8/16/11                5 found this helpful     I am in a similar situation. I have 3 kids and hubby and I werent planning on having anymore. I was on Mirena for almost 2 yrs before the symptoms got to be so bad I had it removed. I had been on bcp's before and had similar but not nearly as bad results so I swore off taking birth control. We do take precautions and I have never used plan b until recently when our precautions failed. I took it within 12 hours of sex &amp; the second pil as directed 12 hrs later. This week my period was due and I have not felt right. I took a hpt Tuesday and got a very faint +. I convinced myself it was all in my mind and waited until the next morning, and got another + but still pretty light. Well after the second I went to my doc and took another urine test, this one came out -. I waited 2 days and took another hpt, which gave definite + results. I am now waiting to go in to my doctor next week for a blood test to find out if I am pregnant.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 8/5/11               3 found this helpful     well im here asking the same question.. just hope this works out for the best...good luck                 Jewlzessence    Answered 3/27/09               3 found this helpful     If you took plan b within 24 hours after unprotected sex, it is very unlikely you could be pregnant. Plan B is extremely effective to prevent pregnancy, especially when taken that early. I would stop worrying...and expect your next period may not come exactly on time as plan B can cause your cycle to be irregular. Good luck!                 Jupol711    Answered 1/15/11               2 found this helpful     Me and my partner had sexual intercourse, but my partner had a condom on. Condom broke and he immediately pulled out but their was precum... he bought Plan B and I took it an hour later can I still get pregnant?           a BabyCenter member   Answered 7/6/17              Was this helpful?     Okay so me and my husband had sex 11/18. I took the Plan B pill 10 hours after we had sex. (we don't want a child right now). Should have used a condom but we didn't. Just wondering if I can still get pregnant after I took the bill after 10 hours?? Or should I not worry about it? Also we had sex after me coming off my period like a day before.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 11/29/17              Was this helpful?     y’all i took plan b within 24 hours after sex and here i am 5 months pregnant. If you’re ovulating when you take it you’re most likely gonna get pregnant because plan b basically just delays ovulation, which won’t happen if you’re already ovulating. but hey i hear married couples on here complaining, count your graces. I’m 19, single and pregnant. It’s the scariest thing to go through but i know it’ll be the best thing that’s ever happened to me when i’m holding my child.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 1/15/18              Was this helpful?              Reason for reporting   Offensive or inappropriate materials  Spamming or advertising  Vulgarity or profanity  Personal attack  Invasion of privacy  Copyright infringement       Cancel    Submit       Thank you for your feedback.           Answer this question    Log in or sign up  to add your answer        Log in to answer           Search Mom Answers            Can't find what you need?  Ask a question     Recent questions in Getting Pregnant     Today is Day 14 after day 3 embryo transfer for Wife and suddenly the symptoms stopped     0  Asked
6 hours ago         Conceiving a boy     0  Asked
9 hours ago         Why i am no more happy being pregnant?     2  Asked
9 hours ago         How long does it take to get pregnant after stopping depo shot?     0  Asked
9 hours ago       See all in Getting Pregnant              advertisement       Featured video     10 signs you're pregnant   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos       advertisement                                You might also like                  Trying to conceive? Five changes to make to your diet now   Find out why it's important to pay attention to your diet now                Sex for Getting Pregnant   Timing sex for conception, the best positions for baby-making, an in-depth explanation of how babies are made, and more about p...                Sex positions for baby-making   Find out if having sex in certain positions or lying down after sex can improve your chances of conceiving.                    Dads-to-be: Diet changes to boost your fertility   A healthy diet isn't just for future moms, dads-to-be need to watch what they're eating, too.                I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                How to get pregnant fast   Use these five tips to boost your chances of getting pregnant quickly – and find out when it's time to get help for a pos...                    Ovulation chart: How to track your basal body temperature and cervical mucus   Get step-by-step instructions for charting your basal body temperature and cervical mucus to help you determine when you're fer...                Ovulation symptoms   Learn the signs and symptoms of ovulation so you can tell when you're fertile.                10 things to avoid when you're trying to get pregnant   Trying to conceive? Find out if things like sexual lubricants, caffeine, alcohol, fish, stress, and hot tubs belong on your pre...                    Choosing your baby's sex: What the scientists say   Choosing your baby's gender is just an old wives tale, say many of the experts. Others aren't so sure.                          Trying to conceive? Five changes to make to your diet now   Find out why it's important to pay attention to your diet now                Sex for Getting Pregnant   Timing sex for conception, the best positions for baby-making, an in-depth explanation of how babies are made, and more about p...                    Sex positions for baby-making   Find out if having sex in certain positions or lying down after sex can improve your chances of conceiving.                Dads-to-be: Diet changes to boost your fertility   A healthy diet isn't just for future moms, dads-to-be need to watch what they're eating, too.                    I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                How to get pregnant fast   Use these five tips to boost your chances of getting pregnant quickly – and find out when it's time to get help for a pos...                    Ovulation chart: How to track your basal body temperature and cervical mucus   Get step-by-step instructions for charting your basal body temperature and cervical mucus to help you determine when you're fer...                Ovulation symptoms   Learn the signs and symptoms of ovulation so you can tell when you're fertile.                    10 things to avoid when you're trying to get pregnant   Trying to conceive? Find out if things like sexual lubricants, caffeine, alcohol, fish, stress, and hot tubs belong on your pre...                Choosing your baby's sex: What the scientists say   Choosing your baby's gender is just an old wives tale, say many of the experts. Others aren't so sure.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons         advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          News  Videos  Quizzes  Tasty  As/Is   More                                                                                    Health  16 Things No One Tells You About The Morning-After Pill   Take that, broken condom.   Posted on March 26, 2015, 15:01 GMT            Casey Gueren  BuzzFeed Staff             Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link                  Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         Jenny Chang / BuzzFeed       Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin          1.  Emergency contraception comes in a few different forms.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    You probably know it best as the morning-after pill (like Plan B One-Step, Next Choice, Ella, etc.) but your other options are the copper IUD or a high dose of regular birth control pills — but more on all these later.        2.  The morning-after pill is not the same as the abortion pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Emergency contraception delays ovulation (when an egg is released from your ovary and could maybe get fertilized by sperm) and may, in some cases, prevent a fertilized egg from implanting in your uterine lining. What it won’t do is end an existing pregnancy. The abortion pill, or Mifeprex, terminates an early pregnancy. “You couldn’t take enough levonorgestrel [Plan B One-Step] to cause an abortion,” James Trussell, Ph.D., senior research demographer of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, tells BuzzFeed Life. “It’s not physiologically capable of doing so.”           Advertisement       3.  You don't need to take it the morning after unprotected sex. You can take it that night or even a few days later.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    The labeling on Plan B One-Step and its generics say that you should take it within 72 hours of unprotected sex, and that it’s most effective the sooner you take it. That’s a solid suggestion, but more recent research found that it might be just as effective on days one through four. And it’s possible that it might still be effective on day five, depending on where you are in your cycle, Dr. Alyssa Dweck, certified OB-GYN, co-author of V Is for Vagina , tells BuzzFeed Life. Obviously you should never wait to take emergency contraception, says Trussell, but if you think you’re too late, call your doctor or a pharmacist to ask about your options. You might still have some time.        4.  The most effective form of emergency contraception isn’t a pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    It’s actually the copper IUD, which has the added bonus of offering pregnancy protection for up to 10 years. If inserted within five days of unprotected sex, it’s extremely effective at preventing pregnancy (in a review of 42 studies between 1979 and 2011, the pregnancy rate was just 0.1% when women used an IUD for emergency contraception ), says Trussell. Science still isn’t sure exactly how it works, but the really high effectiveness implies that it’s probably a combination of preventing fertilization and preventing a fertilized egg from implanting in the uterine wall. The hormonal IUD might work too, but that research is still being done, says Trussell. Of course, use this option only if you actually want the copper IUD (because now you’re stuck with it), and talk to your doctor to make sure you’re a good candidate.        5.  You might feel absolutely fine after you take the morning-after pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    The most common side effects are nausea and some spotting (less common effects are vomiting, fatigue, headache, breast soreness, dizziness, and cramps). But you might not feel any side effects at all. For most people, both pills are really well tolerated, says Dweck.         6.  But your period could be a little ridiculous afterward.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          memecrunch.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      It should still come within a week of its normally scheduled arrival, but it might be earlier or later than normal, says Dweck. If it’s more than a week late, take a pregnancy test.           Advertisement       7.  You can get emergency contraception without any prescription or ID.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Plan B One-Step and its generic forms (any emergency contraception with the main ingredient levonorgestrel) are now available over the counter for all ages. Whether they’re on the shelves or behind the cash register depends on the pharmacy (some stores lock them up to prevent shoplifting), but you no longer need to show an ID or prove you’re over 17 to buy this kind .         8.  There’s also a prescription-only pill option if you have more time/need more time.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          ec.princeton.edu        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      Another option, Ella, can prevent pregnancy when taken up to five days after sex, but you need a prescription to get it. This pill’s ingredient is ulipristal acetate, and it can delay ovulation with the same effectiveness on days one through five. There’s also research that this option works closer to the time that ovulation would occur, so it can buy you some extra time, says Trussell.        9.  And as a last resort, you could use SOME versions of regular old birth control pills.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Maybe you’re already on the pill but you missed like five of them this month. Depending on which pill you use, you might be able to just take them instead of buying Plan B, BUT this doesn’t work for all pills, says Dweck. Look at this chart to see if there are instructions for your prescription. If you go this route, make sure to call your doctor ASAP to let them know you’ll need a new prescription for next month. Also, you’re more likely to experience nausea and vomiting with this method, since the birth control pills contain estrogen (which you won’t find in regular morning-after pills).        10.  You can take it even if you’re on another form of birth control and you effed it up.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Maybe you forgot a few birth control pills or didn’t replace your ring or patch on time. Or maybe the condom ripped in half like those cheap little water balloons. You can still take the morning-after pill, says Dweck.           Advertisement       11.  You can keep the pill version on hand like condoms.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    You know how it never seems to rain when you actually remember to bring your umbrella? Well, maybe you won’t ever need Plan B if you have it tucked in your nightstand. If you do need it, you’ll be really glad you don’t have to trek to the drugstore or doctor’s office to get it — especially since timing is so important. And definitely consider packing it if you’ll be traveling and might not be able to get to a doctor. Just pay attention to expiration dates on the package insert to make sure it’s still effective.         12.  You might be able to get your insurance to pay for it.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          someecards.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      If your insurance covers birth control prescriptions without a co-pay, it should cover the full cost of any FDA-approved method — including emergency contraception. That said, you’ll probably have to get a prescription for your company to cover it, so this is only helpful if you know you can see your doctor ASAP. If you think you might EVER need the morning-after pill, call your insurance company now to find out their policy, so you’re not stuck on hold for an hour when you actually need it. If it'll be covered (even at a reduced cost), it might be worth getting and filling the prescription now, just so you have it in case of an emergency.         13.  Your weight probably doesn’t have anything to do with its effectiveness.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         Jupiterimages / Getty Images / Via thinkstockphotos.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      There were rumors going around that the morning-after pills were less effective in women over 165 pounds and basically useless in women over 176 pounds. This was based on new labeling information on Norlevo, the European version of Plan B One-Step, which happened in late 2013. But in 2014, the European Medicines Agency conducted a review and determined that there wasn’t enough evidence to suggest that this was true, and Norlevo got rid of the extra warning label.         14.  Taking the morning-after pill won’t protect you from more unprotected sex.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          humoar.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      So you slipped up once and took the morning after pill immediately. Can you...hypothetically…have more sex and still be protected? So far no studies have looked at this, so Trussell suggests not tempting fate. Is it possible that it could still protect you if have unprotected sex again 10 minutes after taking it? Maybe. But there’s really no research right now to back that up. Instead of speculating, just settle on a reliable method of birth control instead. Also, condoms, because emergency contraception does NOT protect against STIs.         15.  You can take it again and again and again, but you shouldn't use it in place of regular birth control.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         NBC / Via plumkat.tumblr.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      You can even take it twice in one month if you need to, says Dweck. There’s no research to show that it has any long-term effects on your health or fertility. “Repeat use is not a safety issue at all,” says Trussell. That said, it’s definitely not as effective as having a reliable, continuous method of birth control (like the pill, ring, patch, implant, IUD, shot, condoms, etc.). Plus, it’s way more expensive when you’re talking about cost per sex. And again, it does NOT protect against any STIs — condoms are the only way to limit your exposure to those.         16.  They’re not totally effective, so you might still get pregnant.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          reddit.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      No form of emergency contraception is 100% effective (though the copper IUD comes close). So if your period is more than a week late, you might be pregnant . It’s hard to say exactly how effective each method actually is, especially since placebo-controlled studies would be super unethical here. But here’s what we do know about the effectiveness of each: Copper IUD: When inserted within five days of unprotected sex, it can reduce your risk of getting pregnant by 99%, according to research . Plan B One-Step/levonorgestrel: According to Plan B One-Step’s prescribing information , 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not get pregnant if they take this method correctly. And studies on levonorgestrel emergency contraception found effectiveness rates anywhere from 52% to 100%, according to an academic review of the research by Trussell and his colleagues. Ella/ulipristal acetate: Studies have shown effectiveness rates anywhere from 62% to 85%, according to Trussell . And in studies comparing it to levonorgestrel , it was found to be more effective: When taken within 24 hours of unprotected sex, the chances of getting pregnant were 65% lower than if they took levonorgestrel, and the risk was 42% lower when taken within 72 hours. Combined oral contraceptives (as long as they’re on this list ): Using certain kinds of regular birth control pills as emergency contraception can reduce your chances of getting pregnant by about 75%, according to Trussell .         Mar. 26, 2015, at 22:26 PM     Mifeprex is the medication used to nonsurgically terminate an early pregnancy. An earlier version of this article only referred to mifepristone (the ingredient in Mifeprex) which is often used in conjunction with misoprostol.                Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link        INTRODUCING           For beauty & style as you are.    a     brand       For beauty & style as you are.    See more from As/Is   See more from As/Is                                                       Promoted by           Want to be the first to see product recommendations, style hacks, and beauty trends? Sign up for our As/Is newsletter!       Sign up          Great!  You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!           View Comments                                  Promoted         Promoted by                                 Want to be the first to see product recommendations, style hacks, and beauty trends? Sign up for our As/Is newsletter!       Sign up          Great!  You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!         Advertisement      Connect With            Health      Like Us On Facebook      Follow Us On Twitter           Advertisement                                 Promoted         Promoted by                                            BuzzFeed Home Sitemap © 2018 BuzzFeed, Inc.                Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link                     Text Only    Full media Version         Get EC 
          NOW | INFO about EC | Q&A about EC | About 
          Us | For Providers | Home   Get 
          EC NOW   INFO about EC   Q&A about EC  About Us   For Providers   Home       Find a Morning After Pill Provider Near You     The Emergency Contraception Website - Your website for the "Morning After"     Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About...   Effectiveness  How effective is emergency contraception?  Emergency contraception 
             (also known as " morning 
            after pills " or "day after pills") makes it much less likely that you will get pregnant if taken within 
            the first few days after you have sex. How much it reduces your 
            chances of getting pregnant depends on which kind of emergency 
            contraceptive you use and how quickly you take it after unprotected intercourse. In general, progestin-only emergency contraceptive pills, like Plan B One-Step , Next Choice One Dose , Take Action  and Levonorgestrel Tablets , are more effective than combined emergency contraceptive pills. And pills containing an antiprogestin, like ella , are more effective than  progestin-only pills.  Labeling for Plan B  One-Step, Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice  and Levonorgestrel Tablets states that the treatment prevents 7 of 8 pregnancies that otherwise  would have occurred; that means it reduces your risk of pregnancy by 88%* . And if you  take these progestin-only  emergency contraceptive pills within the first 24 hours after sex, they  reduce your risk of pregnancy by up to 95%.    The risk of  pregnancy after taking ella within 24 hours after sex is about 65% lower than  the risk after taking progestin-only pills such as Plan B  One-Step,  Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice  or Levonorgestrel Tablets ; if taken within 72 hours  after sex, the risk is 42% lower. In clinical studies, ella stayed effective for 5 days after unprotected sex; but what matters for each individual woman is where she is in her own cycle (if a woman is about to ovulate, she may risk pregnancy if she waits 5 days to take EC). Although ella works closer to the time of ovulation than progestin-only EC (such as Plan B One-Step ), emergency contraceptive pills - including ella - do not appear to work if you are too close to ovulation, or have already ovulated. You may not know exactly how close you are to ovulating; so take EC as soon as possible after unprotected sex, no matter which pill you use.    Emergency contraceptive pills containing both progestin 
            and estrogen (known as “combined” pills) reduce the 
            risk of pregnancy by 75%. In other words, if 100 women use this type 
            of pill after having unprotected sex, only 2 of them will get pregnant. 
            Emergency insertion of a copper-T IUD reduces the risk of pregnancy 
            by more than 99%.    While all of these types of emergency 
            contraceptives are safe and effective, with the exception of the IUD (if used for ongoing contraception), they are not as good at preventing pregnancy as birth 
            control that’s used before or during sex, like the pill 
            or condom. If emergency contraception was the only type of birth control 
            you used for an entire year, your annual risk of getting pregnant 
            would probably be about 20% with progestin-only EC such as Plan B  One-Step,  Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice ,  Levonorgestrel Tablets and other progestin-only emergency contraceptive pills and 40% with “combined” emergency contraceptive 
            pills. And that’s assuming you used emergency contraceptive 
            pills perfectly, after each and every time you had unprotected sex. 
            For this reason, health care providers generally recommend that, if 
            you are sexually active, you should try to find a regular method of 
            contraception other than emergency contraception that can work for 
            you. (Find out more about your options here or use this free, interactive online tool or ARHP's Method Match to help choose the best contraceptive method for you.)   * The exact effectiveness of emergency contraceptive pills is difficult to measure and some researchers believe the effectiveness may be lower than that reported on package labels. To find out more about studies evaluating the effectiveness of emergency 
            contraception, read our thorough and up-to-date academic 
            review  of the medical and social science literature here.  ----------   Back to QUESTIONS     Español |  Arabic    My Story           Print this page      This website is operated by the Office 
        of Population Research at Princeton 
        University and by the Association 
        of Reproductive Health Professionals and has no connection with any 
        pharmaceutical company or for-profit organization.      About Us .  EC 
        in the News .  For Providers 
        .  Links .  Site 
        Map .  Privacy            I Need to Get Emergency Contraception NOW  Where can I get Emergency Contraception 
          ("the morning after pill") in the US?  What 
			    brands of birth control pills can be used for EC (in any country)?   Information About Emergency Contraception  The Basics of Emergency Contraception  Emergency Contraceptive Pills 
          ("morning after pills")  The Copper Intrauterine Device ("IUD 
          or Copper T")   Q&A about Emergency Contraception  Well-known Morning After Pill brands  Plan B One-Step . Next Choice One Dose . Postinor . ella      What is Emergency Contraception?  How does emergency contraception work?   Is the Day After Pill 
          the same as the Morning After Pill?   How long do 
          I have to take a "day after pill"?  Can I take it the day before?    What are the side 
          effects of the Morning After Pill?  What are the side effects 
          of progestin-only ECPs?  What are the side effects 
          of combined ECPs?   The difference between the Morning After Pill and the Abortion 
          Pill  How the morning after pill works  How the Abortion Pill works (also 
          known as RU-486 or Mifeprex)        © 2017 Office of Population Research & Association of Reproductive Health Professionals  website design by DDA         Dr. Jen Gunter   Wielding the lasso of truth      Search     Search for:   Go        Home  Subscribe       About me  Disclaimer  Social Media  What  Why    Subscribe to RSS     you're reading...    abortion , Contraception , evidence based medicine , war on women  How does Plan B really work? Don’t ask the Supreme Court, ask an OB/GYN   Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter  ⋅  July 4, 2014  ⋅  58 Comments    Filed Under  abortion. morning after pill    Never has a medication been more misunderstood than poor Plan B (levonorgestrel or LNG), a post coital contraceptive (a.k.a. morning-after pill).  It’s not just Justices Alito, Thomas, Roberts, Scalia, Kennedy and Dr. Hobby Lobby who fail to grasp the mechanism of action, but many other people are confused including journalists (the NY Times has an error in the mechanisms of action in a recent article ) and even some doctors. The misinformation about LNG post coital contraception has essentially become urban medical myth, sometimes perpetuated with good intentions (reporters trying to strive for due diligence or health care professionals trying to teach students or explain to patients) and sometimes with bad intentions (Justice Alito et al and the American Association of Pro-Life OB/GYNs I’m looking at you).  Fortunately there are excellent studies that tell us exactly how Plan B works so let’s get to it:  Plan B is levonorgestrel, a progestin (a synthetic version of the hormone progesterone). The hormone progesterone is released by the sac that stays behind after ovulation (called the corpus luteum). The job of progesterone is to get the uterus primed to accept a fertilized egg and if implantation happens it maintains the pregnancy until the placenta can produce its own progesterone. This hormone is pro-gest ational, hence the choice of the name pro-gest erone. This is a bit of a spoiler alert because a synthetic version of a pro-gestational hormone is unlikely to do the exact opposite.  How does plan B work? It has one and only one mechanism of action, it inhibits ovulation.  A variety of hormonal changes happen as the ovary readies an egg (a.k.a follicle) for ovulation. Ovulation, the actual release of the egg, is triggered by a massive surge of a hormone called luteinizing hormone (LH). After ovulation the egg has a 24 hour window to be fertilized (it has a pretty short shelf life). Plan B when given 2 to 3 days BEFORE the LH surge can inhibit,delay, or blunt the LH surge and prevent ovulation . Outside of that 48 hours window Plan B is very ineffective.   The dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is not enough to affect cervical mucous and since it is given AFTER sex that’s a moot point. By the time you have taken Plan B the sperm has already passed the cervix and within minutes it’s in the fallopian tube. Waiting.  The single dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is not enough to damage sperm. this has also been well-studied.  (FYI sperm can live for 5-6 days in the upper reproductive tract), so we can cross damaging sperm off the how-does-Plan-B-work list.  The single dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is also not enough to do  anything to uterine lining and animal studies tell us that embryos exposed to the Plan B dose of LNG develop just fine and there is no impact on implantation. So even if you use the Justice Alito/Dr. Hobby Lobby version of abortion (i.e. affecting a fertilized egg) there is no possible impact. At all. This is what we call scientific fact, it is not open to interpretation.  Hold on you say. It only works before ovulation? Why would I take it then if I weren’t about to ovulate? Well…   Ovulation can be unpredictable. many women have irregular cycles and even those with cycles like clock work can pop an egg out early every now and then  Sperm lives for 5-6 days, so even of you have sex on day 7 or 8 of your cycle (i.e. days when you are not normally fertile) the sperm might actually be there when you are fertile 4-6 days later.  Plan B has no contraindications and very few, if any, side effects   Basically the permutations and combinations of when you are actually fertile are almost impossible to work out (especially at 2 a.m. when the condom broke), so it is really just better to use it if you have unprotected intercourse regardless of the day of the month. That is how it was studied. However, ella (ulipristal) is more effective as a post coital contraceptive and a Copper IUD is the most effective, although both require a prescription and are significantly more expensive than generic Plan B. If you absolutely do not want to get pregnant ella or a post-coital copper IUD are better choices, but just less practical.  Just as we know that condoms work by mechanically preventing sperm from getting into the uterus, we know that Plan B works by inhibiting ovulation. To say otherwise isn’t a belief, it’s a lie.        Note: someone asked why does Plan B labeling indicate that it might affect implantation when I say that it does not? I felt my reply important enough to add that to the body of the post in case someone else has the same question.  Package inserts are notorious for being a “cover you legal ass and assets” rather than a reflection of state of the art science. This is because they are legal documents not medical ones, the FDA has very specific requirements as to what can and can not be put into a package insert based in the studies presented to the FDA at the time of application, and they are often outdated due to the science that has been produced since the original application.  The Plan B package insert was approved in 2006 and since that time there have been at least three studies evaluating endometrial receptivity that disprove an implantation disruption hypothesis (Palomino in 2010 Fertility Sterility, Meng 2010 Human Reproduction and Vargas 2012 Journal of Molecular Endocrinology). There was a 2001 study that indicated no impact on endometrial receptivity (Durand Contraception), however whether that one study was considered sufficient at the time of FDA submission or was even submitted I don’t know.  Our understanding of how mechanisms of action of medications evolves as new technology develops. in addition, once products become available many researchers become interested in further study. The company who makes the product is typically not invested in this specific kind of post market research as it brings them nothing financially. To get a package insert changed on new data requires a significant amount of paper work with the FDA and is very expensive. Once a product is generic (such as Plan B) there is zero motivation to make the correction.  Relying on a package insert which contains by nature a myriad of biases from 2006 and thus based on data from pre-2005 to be scientifically accurate in 2014 (especially given the robust studies published in peer reviewed journals since) is ludicrous.  In addition, the 2008 FIGO statement on LNG post coital contraception says a “review of the evidence suggests that LNG ECPs cannot prevent implantation of a fertilized egg. Language on implantation should not be included in LNG ECP product labeling.”  Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Reddit Email More LinkedIn Print Like this: Like  Loading...   Related      « An OB/GYN’s opinion on the Supreme Court, Hobby Lobby, and contraception  An OB/GYN reviews Obvious Child, the movie »      Discussion   58 thoughts on “ How does Plan B really work? Don’t ask the Supreme Court, ask an OB/GYN ”      Thank you for this post!    Posted by Victo Dolore | July 4, 2014, 10:29 am     Reply to this comment       So what happens if a woman takes plan B immediately after she has ovulated (and had unprotected sex, of course, assuming there is sperm lurking around in the uterus?)    Posted by RP | September 9, 2015, 9:11 pm     Reply to this comment       This is what I would like to know too.  How does Plan B work at all if ovulation has taken place since intercourse happened?    Posted by Jonathan | January 14, 2016, 3:23 pm          It doesn’t work after ovulation.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | January 14, 2016, 3:56 pm          If Plan B is taken after implantation has occurred, doesn’t the huge dose of progesterone create a risk that the baby will develop abnormally?    Posted by Jonathan Brumley | April 14, 2016, 8:18 am          No, not at all. Been well studied. In IVF they give progesterone to support an early pregnancy all the time.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | April 14, 2016, 9:28 am          well. it work on me, i had sex on my ovulation day and then after 30-45 mins i took the pill and now on my 29th day cycle i am having my 1st day of mens…    Posted by meganfox | August 7, 2016, 4:08 pm          must back it up by some other method,talk about immediate insertion of IUD.    Posted by Brian | January 5, 2018, 1:51 pm              There you go again!  Using Science and Facts!    Posted by rekster | July 4, 2014, 11:34 am     Reply to this comment       That you for putting the information out there. Leslie    Posted by swo8 | July 4, 2014, 12:31 pm     Reply to this comment       The root of the dispute is, among other points is the following quote from the Plan B package insert which you no doubt dispute.  –  “Plan B  One-Step is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization (by altering tubal transport of sperm and/or ova). In addition, it may inhibit implantation (by altering the endometrium).” This suggests a possible post-fertilization effect which is the root of HL’s objection.  Likewise, does your post support the HL contention that IUDs may have a post fertilization effect (by your point that IUDs are more effective EC) in that the post-coital placement of an IUD would not seem to effect sperm that is surely in the upper reproductive tract but (seemingly) create a uterine environment against implantation?    Posted by Daniel Kane | July 4, 2014, 1:58 pm     Reply to this comment       Package inserts are notorious for being a “cover you legal ass and assets” rather than a reflection of state of the art science. This is because they are legal documents not medical ones, the FDA has very specific requirements as to what can and can not be put into a package insert based in the studies presented to the FDA at the time of application, and they are often outdated due to the science that has been produced since the original application.  The Plan B package insert was approved in 2006 and since that time there have been at least three studies evaluating endometrial receptivity that disprove an implantation disruption hypothesis (Palomino in 2010 Fertility Sterility , Meng 2010 Human Reproduction and Vargas 2012 Journal of Molecular Endocrinology ). There was a 2001 study that indicated no impact on endometrial receptivity (Durand Contraception ), however whether that one study was considered sufficient at the time of FDA submission or was even submitted I don’t know.  Our understanding of how mechanisms of action of medications evolves as new technology develops. in addition, once products become available many researchers become interested in further study. The company who makes the product is typically not invested in this specific kind of post market research as it brings them nothing financially. To get a package insert changed on new data requires a significant amount of paper work with the FDA and is very expensive. Once a product is generic (such as Plan B) there is zero motivation to make the correction.  Relying on a package insert which contains by nature a myriad of biases from 2006 and thus based on data from pre-2005 to be scientifically accurate in 2014 (especially given the robust studies published in peer reviewed journals since) is ludicrous.  This post is about Plan B, not the IUD. I have a post that I wrote for the New Republic that contains info on the IUD, check their website out on Monday.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 4, 2014, 2:40 pm     Reply to this comment       Thank you — it’s nice to see the truth.    Posted by Melissa Barthold | July 8, 2014, 9:18 am              Thank you for your sensible TRUE post! I’m sick of the opinions of those who know nothing yet think their opinion is scientific fact.    Posted by Erin Bliss | July 4, 2014, 8:08 pm     Reply to this comment       While I agree with everything in this article the entire scope misses the point!  The federal government has no authority to tell a privately owned or any company what kind of insurance to offer including no insurance which will be the results of most of this mess I also as an individual can choose to work for that company or choose one that offers what I want.  Individual responsibility is exactly that, individual responsibility   Even long before all of this existed and as a poor starving student I could choose to buy condoms or a nicer dinner date.  Making the wrong choice on my end could have had dire life changing results but I did know the federal government was not reonsible for me or my results in life Stop the insanity    Posted by RedraiderRio | July 5, 2014, 9:19 am     Reply to this comment       So, I guess you are against the Federal government regulating business in any way?  You are against any employment regulations?  You are ok with having no workplace safety regulations?  You are ok with no working condition regulations?  You are ok with no privacy regulations that businesses are required to follow?  Or are you just against anything the Federal government requires?  Just trying to figure that out.    Posted by rekster | July 5, 2014, 11:54 am     Reply to this comment       When health care is politicized as it is now, few are happy. There is a legitimate discussion to be had – should the government specify what is in health insurance? Should the employer? Should the employer just shut up and pay?  The next regime in D.C. may not be so inclined to provide contraceptives in favor of something else (to please another party – because in case anyone has missed it – including me; this is not about science, it is about control). So, today if it seems like one’s boss and one’s government is in the bed room and exam room you could be correct. It is only the case because the citizenry via Congress invited them in.  At the moment, everyone is simply vetting the level of intrusion and level of interference for the employer and the feds. This will go on for about 10 years.  If one depends on the feds for goods and services, one can expect them to seek their own science for their own reasons. Dr. G pretty fairly laid out Plan B’s actions and answered a pertinent objection on the package insert. But the Court does not need Dr. G or her science. A million Ob-Gyns may properly agree with her but if five judges do not, that is the market we desired and created when we federalized the insurance business. Consumers of health care – and we are all consumers – become recipients with no opinion or option.    Posted by Daniel Kane | July 5, 2014, 6:07 pm              Dr. Hobby Lobby! I’m going to start using that one. Many of my patients (I’m a midwife working as a women’s health NP), unfortunately, either don’t know much about emergency contraception, or believe that it causes an abortion, due to all the awful non-scientific stuff that’s out there. Thanks for the post!    Posted by michelleefarber | July 5, 2014, 10:10 am     Reply to this comment       An article titled “The Science Behind the Birth Control in the Hobby Lobby Case” was written in which the author Jen Gunter stated that Plan B does not stop implantation of a fertilized egg. She stated regarding stopping implantation of a fertilized egg. “Plan B, which is one form of the morning-after pill, clearly wouldn’t. It works by inhibiting ovulation when given during a specific 48 hour window of the cycle. It has no other method of action. This is undisputed scientific fact. (Plan B is one of the best studied of all the methods of contraception).”  She said this is an undisputed scientific fact??? When this is a completely false statement. Plan B’s official website states that it DOES prevent implantation. Here is an excerpt from the official website.  “How does Plan B One-Step® work?  Plan B One-Step® is one tablet with levonorgestrel, a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades. Plan B One-Step® contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills, but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy. It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary. It is possible that Plan B One-Step® may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg (the uniting of sperm with the egg) or by preventing attachment (implantation) to the uterus (womb).”  This is from the Plan B One-Step Website. http://www.planbonestep.com/faqs.aspx  This needs to be reprinted and fixed. This is an attack on religious conservatives and makes Hobby Lobby and all those who have religious concerns about birth control look to be liars. I normally never would get involved but when I see a blatant LIE written on an article from a doctor who is claiming something that is not true… it needs to be fixed. I will be pursuing this with a passion until it is.    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 10:36 am     Reply to this comment       So you didn’t read the article or didn’t understand it? If you did you would have seen the paragraphs at the end that explain the package insert is incorrect and why FIGO recommends changing the package.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 11:13 am     Reply to this comment       I read the article and I still disagree with you and so do many other modern gynecologists. It is still possible to take the plan B after ovulation or the day of and therefore fertilization would have already occurred.  How do you explain why OBGYN have patients who come into their office who have severe bleeding after taking Plan B and they do a test of hormone levels that show that there was pregnancy hormones present in the test and the Plan B caused an early abortion. Stated from an OBGYN! The office stated that this is something that happens with Plan B. So other doctors have stated the opposite of what you are so boldly and confidently. This is a common situation for many women. That is a scientific fact!    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 11:47 am          There are no studies supporting your assertion of Plan B resulting in “a test of hormone levels that show there was pregnancy hormones present.” Please find a peer reviewed study that supports that claim otherwise go elsewhere with your venom. Also, the irregular bleeding than can happen after Plan B is due to the effect of levonorgestrel on ovulation.  As Plan B is not 100% effective some women will get pregnant (about 5% a month with no birth control and 2% with Plan B). As there is normally a high degree of early pregnancy loss naturally (i.e. miscarriage) some of the Plan B failures will miscarry. That’s not a Plan B effect.  Your claims are hearsay and your conclusions are based in a poor understanding of reproductive biology and the scientific method.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 12:33 pm          Also, you can say whatever you want about FIGO recommending to change the package in 2008 but the scientific fact is they have NOT changed the package. To this day in July 8th, 2014, the statement that it may prevent implantation is still on the plan B packaging and website. It’s there for a reason!!! If what you state was true, it would be changed but it’s NOT!    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 12:03 pm          Again, clearly you did not understand or read the post. No manufacturer ever invests $ in changing the package insert after a product goes generic.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 12:35 pm          Not hearsay but personal experience. Not venom just truth.    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 1:36 pm          If your comments are based on your personal experience taking Plan B it still does not support your claim that the medication interferes with implantation. If a doctor told you that, they were wrong. If you had irregular bleeding or an early or late period after Plan B that is a well known side effect and does not imply a post fertilization impact. The package insert was not updated for all the reasons described above. Personal experience does not support the erroneous claims that Plan B is an abortifacient.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 9, 2014, 10:04 am          What’s wrong with the other 16 birth control methods Hobby Lobby does approve of?    Posted by Mark Conte | July 9, 2014, 12:22 pm              ^The ruling allows companies to now refuse coverage of ANY type of contraception, so those 16 aren’t givens anymore. The wording of the ruling also apparently states companies don’t have to cover “counseling” on methods they do not approve. So, what? They’re just not going to cover pap smears if your GYN drops the “IUD” bomb during the visit? Unclear how that’s going to work under HIPAA. Also, the four methods that were originally in dispute are coincidentally the most effective and the most expensive. Some women can’t use hormonal methods at all, so the copper IUD is the best option ($1,000??? Pocket change, of course). Women unhappy with their method tend to use it sporadically, hence unintended pregnancies happen if women are “on” the pill. Unintended pregnancies tend to cause a woman to seek abortion, or have an unhealthy pregnancy. Also, I’ve seen IUDs used in lieu of oral contraceptives if a patient’s parent or partner is performing what we call reproductive coercion…throwing pills away, refusing to use condoms, trying to impregnate someone against their will, etc. Those women benefit from a discreet, reliable method like the IUD, because they may not be a position to simply “abstain” from sex without partner retaliation (and if anyone answers “She should just leave him!”, you know very little about patterns of intimate partner violence on a broad scale, even if you have your own experiences). So no, there’s nothing wrong with the “other 16”; they’re just a viable option for every woman.    Posted by LT | July 12, 2014, 7:36 am     Reply to this comment       *not a viable option.    Posted by LT | July 12, 2014, 7:37 am     Reply to this comment       The Supreme court has ruled.  Unless you want to change our system of government, Get over it.  You can buy any drug you want at the local Walmart.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 12, 2014, 8:13 am     Reply to this comment       The Supreme Court also reverses their rulings…Dred Scott being the most obvious example. Get a couple of non-corporate judges on SCOTUS and this ruling will be toast.    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 6:42 am          This is not quite Dred Scott.  In fact, it is the exact opposite for the fetus.  Now go run out and save a puppy because you love animals.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 8:53 am          I don’t know what saving puppies (in my case it would be kittens) has to do with what we’re talking about. My point was that the Supreme Court does reverse their rulings. I think this ruling is just as wrong as Dred Scott’s was…therefore, get some different, non-partisan (or, more, accurately, non-Catholic, since Alito and Scalia obviously let their religiosity overwhelm their legalese) judges on the bench, and it will probably be reversed.    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 10:35 am          You’ll drive 35 miles to save some kittens trapped in a locked car but will flush your own flesh and blood down the toilet with the disdain you have for a cockroach.  Get it now>  Religion has nothing to do with it.  The last time I went to church was when my friend got married 8 years ago.  It’s a human rights issue, like the slavery issue and the gassing of the Jews and for the current world, the bombing of innocent women and children in Palestine which the whole world is turning a blind eye to.  Going to a PETA Meeting tonight?    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 3:55 pm          Boy, those goalposts are just tumbling down the mountainside, aren’t they?  Obviously you have no answer to the fact that the Hobby Lobby ruling is just plain wrong and there’s a good chance a future Supreme Court will reverse it. I never mentioned abortion, so why are you dragging that in? Also, what the hell doesn PETA have to do with anything? Really, Mr. Conte, you’re just frothing at the mouth. As you so snidely told me, “Get over it.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 4:02 pm          It’s just plain wrong in your eyes.  However majority rules in this country.  Case closed.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 6:59 pm          Not necessarily. As I said, get one or two new justices, and who knows?  http://money.howstuffworks.com/10-overturned-supreme-court-cases.htm  Also, the Senate will hold a vote on legislation to reverse the decision.  http://www.politicususa.com/2014/07/14/senate-vote-bill-reverse-hobby-lobby-decision.html  So I wouldn’t be too sure of that.  Also, the “majority” doesn’t rule if the majority rule is unconstitutional. See “same-sex marriage bans overturned.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 7:10 pm          Let’s cut all the bs.  You want the insurance company to pay for the more expensive birth control.  The Supreme Court said you have to pay for your own.  That’s it.  If as you say this ruling can be reversed, so can other laws like Roe vs Wade.  Think about that.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 8:34 pm          Well, obviously. But can you really imagine the one or two justices who would be needed to reverse this ruling…then turning around and reversing Roe v. Wade? Think about that, dude. Not hardly.  You didn’t even read the article, did you? Cost has nothing to do with it. The five Catholics wrote their opinion on the bullshit idea that a false belief trumps scientific fact.  Also, since my other comment is still in moderation, you said: “However majority rules in this country. Case closed.”  The “majority” doesn’t rule if the rule is unconstitutional. See “same-sex marriage bans overturned.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 9:14 pm              I read and understood the explanation. I took the plan b about cycle day 18th and I had my period about a day or two later. I didn’t chart my cycles like I do now and I now know that I ovulate between cycle day 18 and 22 if ovulation isn’t delay by stress or whatever and I mentruate about about 14 to 15 days later which ranges my cycles 33,34,35 or 36 days long. So how come I menstruated about two weeks and a few days after my previous menstration when I took plan b? I had never gotten a period that earlier in my whole menstruating years, infact, that’s the only time I’ve ever! And now that I understand my menstrual cycles better, I have come to conclude that indeed plan b interferes with implatation as I may have taken it on the day or the day after I ovulated. If you have an explanation for that, it would be most appreciated. Thank you.    Posted by Mrs.Prongs | August 17, 2014, 8:15 am     Reply to this comment       Bleeding does not imply a normal menses. The hormones in plan b can indeed cause irregular bleeding    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | August 17, 2014, 9:30 am     Reply to this comment       Thank you so much for taking the time to answer by question. I thought about that too but I wasn’t sure as that particular period was just as long and as heavy as my regular periods of 7 days (first four are heavy and last day or two is/are spotting). Don’t know if that changes anything.    Posted by Mrs.Prongs | August 17, 2014, 10:51 am            This happened to me,I took plan b, I had my period about 5 days later (9 days earlier than normal) then the next month skipped a period completely, then the following month back on track…i Just thought I would share as it really freaked me out skipping my period…i went to like3 doctors all who said it could happen and still didn’t believe them to my period came back.    Posted by Sarah | August 28, 2014, 1:28 pm     Reply to this comment         If an ovulation test says you are having an LH surge and then you take the Plan B… will the Plan B stop the process of ovulation?    Posted by Megan | March 5, 2015, 1:50 pm     Reply to this comment       So if sperm can live 5 days and you take the pill on day two but the pill is only effective for 48 hours if you ovulate  5 days after sex isn’t there a chance you could still get pregnant, assuming the sperm were still viable?    Posted by Candace | March 18, 2016, 4:33 pm     Reply to this comment       Thanks for posting this. I’m having difficulty getting people to believe that Plan B does not prevent implantation. Do you have studies that I can site? Thanks    Posted by Alex | March 31, 2016, 7:55 pm     Reply to this comment       I had unprotected sex a day before ovulation, I took plan b about 36 hours later, so after ovulation. If fertilization took place, could the pregnancy be interrupted? What are the complications?    Posted by Concerned? | May 12, 2016, 5:42 pm     Reply to this comment       Thank you for this post I was crying almost a complete 24 hours thinking that I had killed my baby after I read articles stating that it could cause and abortion to a fertilized egg, I am a Christian so in my interpretation life begins at conception which is at fertilization. Not implantation. I panicked when I seen the blood which is a common side affect 10-26% but the two times I took plan b years apart I didn’t expierence that symptom but back then I wasn’t close to my ovulation point like I was this time arround either way I’m giving up b.c purist of condoms permanently after this ehen you are ovulating you get all the symptoms including nausea , cramps and lots of bloating. BUT I am beyond greatful for this detailed explanation because with all this conflicting information out there it can become very stressful    Posted by Crystal | June 5, 2016, 1:07 am     Reply to this comment       I have scoured the Internet and read countless articles on Plan B and I cannot find an answer to my question. What if you have sex and the condom breaks and you take a Plan B the very next day. You were not sure of your ovulation and you may not have ovulated yet. Maybe you ovulated a few days after you took the plan B pill. You end up pregnant. Could that affect the  baby or increase chances of miscarriage? Everything I find talks about how Plan B does not affect an existing pregnancy. But what if you weren’t pregnant when you took Plan B, but rather took it and got pregnant a few days later?  I am currently pregnant after having taken Plan B and  have been told by my midwife a miscarriage is imminent. She said it has nothing to do with it but I can’t shake the feeling it created an inhospitable environment where the baby couldn’t thrive.    Posted by jencocoa | August 3, 2016, 10:39 am     Reply to this comment       I tool a plan b pill on yesterday around 4:15 and around 4:30 have unprotective sex. How long do i need to wait before it take affect and do i need to wait a never one do i count thursay though saturday. Or friday though suday cause i think that said wait 3 days before having unprotective sex can u hel pme understand    Posted by Tyanesha S Singleton | October 28, 2016, 1:50 am     Reply to this comment       I believe your theory.. I had unprotected sex and took plan b to be safe knowing that I was possibly ovulating and turns out the plan b did not work and I’m now 3 months pregnant. I took plan b within 12 hours of unprotected sex (the next morning) and now pregnant and that was the only time I had unprotected sex … women need to know the information you provided because we are all misinformed by plan B  Thank you for sharing    Posted by Alyssa | November 1, 2017, 10:59 pm     Reply to this comment       For how long would Plan B delay your ovulation?  Days,  weeks?    Posted by Samantha Miranda | January 19, 2018, 10:32 am     Reply to this comment         Trackbacks/Pingbacks    Pingback: How Does Plan B Really Work? Don’t Ask The Supreme Court, Ask An | Edmund's Page - July 5, 2014     Pingback: The Hobby Lobby Decision | Unsolicited Feedback - July 16, 2014     Pingback: 9 ways personhood amendments are harmful | Dr. Jen Gunter - September 30, 2014     Pingback: Hobby Lobby and Gender Discrimination: Refocusing the Conversation | Birth Anarchy - October 13, 2014     Pingback: A gynecologist sums up 2014 | Dr. Jen Gunter - January 2, 2015     Pingback: Hobby Lobby and Gender Discrimination: Refocusing the Conversation • Birth Anarchy - December 20, 2015       Leave a Reply Cancel reply      Enter your comment here...      Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                    Email (required)  (Address never made public)     Name (required)     Website                 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )   w     Cancel  Connecting to %s       Notify me of new comments via email.              Recent Tweets  RT @ PenguinGalaxy : @ DrJenGunter Someone twitches their butt briefly within 5 miles of someone they find attractive? 1 hour ago   Are you saying you are a witch?
That would explain a lot. twitter.com/realDonaldTrum…  2 hours ago   @ jkirbs7 lol 2 hours ago   Blogroll   Anarchic Teapot  Kevin MD  Preemie Primer  Science-Based pharmacy  Skepchick    Facebook  PreemiePrimer        Dr. Jen Gunter                                                                                  Post to     Cancel                   Send to Email Address   Your Name   Your Email Address         Cancel  Post was not sent - check your email addresses!  Email check failed, please try again  Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.              %d bloggers like this:               ENGLISH  Français     WHY PLAN B ®  HOW IT WORKS  WHERE TO GET IT  WHAT TO EXPECT  FAQ             When did you have sex without a contraceptive or have a contraceptive accident?  Calculate      Select Day     Today  Yesterday  Two days ago  Three days ago  Four or more days ago             Select Hour     0 AM  1 AM  2 AM  3 AM  4 AM  5 AM  6 AM  7 AM  8 AM  9 AM  10 AM  11 AM  12 PM  1 PM  2 PM  3 PM  4 PM  5 PM  6 PM  7 PM  8 PM  9 PM  10 PM  11 PM           Submit      Please select a time earlier than the present.     You have hours remaining to take plan B ® .  Please take it as soon as possible because the sooner you take it, the better it works. plan B ® can help prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours, and preferably within 12 hours, after a contraceptive accident or unprotected sex.     It has been more than 72 hours since you had unprotected sex or a contraceptive accident.  Please contact a healthcare professional for advice.    Back        Condoms are not foolproof. And sometimes you need a plan B ® .     FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS   Misconceptions can lead to conception. More often than you might think, unplanned pregnancies happen because we don’t have all the facts. Or, if we do have the facts, we sometimes kid ourselves that they don’t apply to us. If you’ve had unprotected sex or a contraceptive accident, such as if a condom broke, you are at risk of an unwanted pregnancy— so don’t wait until it’s too late . It’s only human to put off decisions or tell ourselves that everything’s fine. But if you wait for your next period, you may have a much bigger decision to make.          I’VE HAD UNPROTECTED SEX. AM I LIKELY TO GET PREGNANT?       You can get pregnant at any time during your monthly cycle —from the start of one period to the beginning of the next. Although people talk about a “safe time of the month,” it’s hard to tell when this is, for many reasons.  Your most fertile time of the month is when you’re ovulating (producing an egg), but most women aren’t aware when this is happening. Also, it takes several days for an egg to make its way from the ovary down the Fallopian tube, and an egg can be fertilized at any point during this journey. Sperm can survive in a woman’s body for up to seven days , so even if you hadn’t ovulated when you had sex, the sperm could still fertilize the egg sometime afterwards.  Many women don’t have regular periods. The time between your periods can vary, depending on what’s happening in your life, whether you’re stressed, and whether or not you’re eating properly. This makes it even more difficult to calculate your “safe” time.  When accidents happen, such as a condom breaking, and you don’t want to get pregnant, emergency contraception is there as a plan B ® . It’s not something you should use regularly, and you should never think of it as an alternative to a long-term method of birth control.     IS PLAN B ® AN ABORTION PILL?      Absolutely not. It may be comforting to know that plan B ® does not work if you are already pregnant (a fertilized egg has attached to the wall of the uterus). So if you take plan B ® , you will not be terminating a pregnancy. If you already have a confirmed pregnancy, you should not use plan B ® because it will not be effective.     I FORGOT MY PILL. WHAT SHOULD I DO?      If you forgot to take one of your oral contraceptive pills for more than a 24-hour period, and you engaged in unprotected intercourse during the day of the missed pill or within five days prior to the missed pill, consider taking plan B ® to prevent an unwanted pregnancy.     HOW DO I RESTART MY BIRTH CONTROL PILLS?      If you've taken plan B ® because of missed birth control pills, ask your pharmacist or doctor about the best way for you to restart them. Remember to use another method of contraception, such as condoms, until your birth control is fully effective.      WILL PLAN B ® AFFECT MY PERIOD?       plan B ® has no long-term effect on your menstrual cycle. Most women will get their next period when expected, and their cycle will continue as normal. For some women, their period can come earlier or later than usual and be lighter or heavier. If your period is delayed more than a week, or if you have any other cause for concern, contact your healthcare professional. More than occasional use (more than once within a menstrual cycle or more than once a month) may impact your menstrual cycle. You may also experience a few days of spotting after taking plan B ® , which is normal.     WHAT WILL HAPPEN AT THE PHARMACY?      In a province or territory where plan B ® is kept over the counter, you will find it in one of the following sections: Birth Control, Contraceptives, Feminine Hygiene or Family Planning.   In provinces where plan B ® is kept behind the pharmacy counter (Quebec and Saskatchewan), the pharmacist may ask you a few simple questions before giving you, or prescribing you (in Quebec), plan B ® to ensure it’s right for you. These professionals have been trained to handle requests for emergency contraception sympathetically and confidentially. In some cases, your pharmacist may refer you to a doctor or clinic for emergency contraception instead.     HOW OFTEN CAN I TAKE PLAN B ® ?      plan B ® should only be used in emergencies and not on a regular basis. It can also be used more than once. However, if plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher.   Remember that it should never replace regular, long-term methods of contraception. The pregnancy rate of plan B ® is calculated for a single use. If plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher. Also, if plan B ® is taken more than once within a menstrual cycle or more than occasional once-a-month use, it may impact your period.     DO I NEED A PRESCRIPTION FOR PLAN B ® ?      plan B ® is available at pharmacies across Canada without a prescription from your doctor. plan B ® is available over the counter in Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Nunavut, the Northwest Territories, Ontario, Prince Edward Island and Yukon. It can be found in any of these sections of your pharmacy: Birth Control, Contraceptives, Feminine Hygiene or Family Planning . It is kept behind the counter in Saskatchewan and is available under prescription by your pharmacist in Quebec.     HOW DOES PLAN B ® WORK?      plan B ® is a levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive, available in a one-pill (1.5 mg) dose. It works by temporarily stopping the release of an egg from the ovary, preventing fertilization if ovulation has already occurred, or, if an egg has already been fertilized, preventing it from attaching to the wall of the uterus.     HOW LONG IS PLAN B ® EFFECTIVE?       The sooner you take plan B ® , the more effective it is. It can prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours and preferably within 12 hours of unprotected sex. If you take it within 24 hours of unprotected sex, it is 95% effective. If you take it between 48 and 72 hours of unprotected sex, the efficacy rate is 61%. Note that if plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher.     WHAT ARE SOME OF THE SIDE EFFECTS OF THE PLAN B ® MORNING-AFTER PILL?       Severe reactions to plan B ® are uncommon. Temporary side effects, however, may occur and usually pass within 24 hours. The most common side effects include nausea, abdominal pain, fatigue, headache, dizziness, breast tenderness, vomiting, diarrhea and irregular menstrual bleeding. Less common reactions are migraine or severe headache, lower abdominal pain, painful menstruation and vaginal discharge. If these symptoms continue for more than 48 hours or are severe, see a healthcare professional.   Be sure to contact a healthcare professional immediately if you experience any of the following serious side effects: itching and rash, cramping or severe pain in your stomach or belly prior to your next normal period, uterine hemorrhage, vaginal hemorrhage. If you vomit within two hours of taking plan B ® , you may need to take another dose.     WHERE CAN I FIND MORE INFORMATION?      If you have any questions, you can call the plan B ® medical information line toll-free at: 1‑888‑867‑7426 (Canadian residents only).        HOME  WHY PLAN B ®  HOW IT WORKS  WHERE TO GET IT  WHAT TO EXPECT  FAQ  CONTACT US  SITE MAP  LEGAL DISCLAIMER   plan B ® , the original morning-after pill, contains levonorgestrel. This product may not be right for you. Always read the label.         *Pharmacy Practice+ & Profession Santé 2015 Survey on OTC Counselling & Recommendations.   © 2016 Paladin Labs Inc. All Rights Reserved.                          Close               Are you a provider? Visit Bedsider Providers »  Welcome!  ( Sign in or Create your account ) Español      HEY THERE.   New to Bedsider? Sign up here »     Sign in using Facebook or Twitter.  Sign in with Facebook »  Sign in with Twitter »    Sign in using your Bedsider Insider account.   email or phone   password     Forgot your password?  Get it back »            SIGN ME UP   Already a member? Sign in here »      Sign up using Facebook or Twitter.  Sign up with Facebook »  Sign up with Twitter »    Create a Bedsider Insider account.    email   We promise, we'll never give out your address.  nickname     password     confirm password   zip code   We'll only use it to customize Bedsider  what's your method?  choose one (optional)  I'll Never Tell  IUD  Implant  The Shot  The Ring  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom  Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception  where did you hear about us?  choose one (optional)  Healthcare Provider  College  Social Media  Internet Search  Link from another website  TV commercial  A friend, acquaintance, or family member  Other            SUBSCRIPTIONS: LET'S GET IT ON       frisky fridays   Sign up for our weekly column on sex, life, love, kicking ass, and using better birth control.     text me     email me     no thanks       We only use this number to text your subscriptions.        provider perspectives   See what our medical experts have to say about birth control, health, sex, science, and more.     text me     email me     no thanks      sign me up         JUST A FEW MORE DETAILS    Tell us more to complete your Bedsider Insider profile.     email   We need this to verify your account. We promise, we'll never give out your address.  nickname     zip code   We'll only use it to customize Bedsider  what's your method?  choose one (optional)  I'll Never Tell  IUD  Implant  The Shot  The Ring  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom  Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception  Spermicide  Spermicide-free  Latex  Non-latex  Combination  Progestin-only  Levonorgestrel-based pills  ella  Yuzpe Regimen  Incision  Non-incision  Body Temp (BBT)  Standard Days (SDM)  TwoDay (TDM)  Lactational (LAM)  Cervical Mucus  Symptothermal  Hormonal  Non-hormonal  Non-hormonal IUD  where did you hear about us?  choose one (optional)  Healthcare Provider  College  Social Media  Internet Search  Link from another website  TV commercial  A friend, acquaintance, or family member  Other                    BEDSIDER     birth control methods     Explore Methods  find a method that's right for you! »   Compare Methods  view a side-by-side comparison »   If Birth Control Fails  learn more about your options »     Dive straight into the details   IUD (Intrauterine Device)  Implant (Nexplanon)  The Shot (Depo-Provera)  The Ring (NuvaRing)  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom    Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception       where to get it    reminders    features      All Features  News, views, info, and tips about health, sex, and birth control.      Fact or Fiction  setting the record straight when it comes to sex      Frisky Fridays  a weekly column on sex, life, love, and kicking ass     Explore by topic   Birth control  STIs  News  Relationships  Better Sex  Health  Real Stories  Guy's Guide    Culture  How To  Insurance  Side Effects  Communication  Myths  Public Policy  Provider Perspective        questions             PROVIDER PERSPECTIVES /      view all features »          share this                   5 myths about the emergency contraceptive pill, busted  When it comes to post-sex pregnancy prevention, don't believe the rumors.  by
Maria Isabel Rodriguez, MD   updated 2017-02-22     Emergency contraception pills (ECPs) are the subject of more rumors and misunderstandings than any celebrity I can name—despite the fact that the medical community has been studying them for over 50 years. Part of the confusion is due to outdated information included in package labeling, and part is due to political interference with science .  If the condom broke, you forgot a pill, or things went further than you planned, having a Plan B —pun intended—can make a big difference. So if you ever had, have, or might have sex, it’s important to separate the fact from the fiction where ECPs are concerned—starting with the realities behind these 5 common myths.  Myth 1: There’s only one ECP option—and it’s hard to get.  There are more than two dozen types of ECPs in the U.S. The most common is the levonorgestrel-only pill—the best known brand of it is Plan B One-Step and generic versions include Next Choice One Dose, My Way, and Take Action. Plan B One-Step and generic levonorgestrel-only ECPs are now available in pharmacies, in stores, and online without a prescription or age restrictions. Most clinics accept walk-in patients who need emergency contraception (EC) in a hurry.  A newer ECP called ella contains ulipristal acetate and requires a prescription regardless of age. You can consult with a doctor and get a prescription for ella online . Side effects are low with either method, but some women have nausea, abdominal cramps, or changes in their next period. BTW, it’s also good to know that a study found that levonorgestrel-based pills may be less effective for women who weigh more than 165 lbs—and ella may be less effective for women who weigh more than 195 lbs. ParaGard is the only EC option that we know is equally effective regardless of weight .  There’s also the Yuzpe method, where plain old birth control pills taken in higher amounts can be used as EC. This table shows the needed amounts for different types of pills. This method may be convenient, especially if birth control pills are already on hand, but it’s associated with more nausea and vomiting  and is less effective than other options.  Getting ECPs as quickly as possible after unprotected sex is important since their effectiveness decreases over time. The ideal is to take them immediately after sex, but they can help prevent a pregnancy when taken up to five days after. Bedsider has an EC search with locations providing EC if you’re not sure where to get it in your area. Better yet, order online and keep it in your medicine cabinet.  Myth 2: ECPs cause abortion.  Little-known fact: After sex, sperm hang around in the fallopian tubes for days waiting for an egg to appear. If an egg doesn’t show up, the sperm eventually give up. That’s why ECPs only work for up to 5 days after sex, and why it’s important to take them as soon as you can.  Some people confuse ECPs with medication abortion pills , but they are not the same thing. (At all.) Levonorgestrel, the progestin hormone in most ECPs, has no effect on an established pregnancy . All ECPs prevent pregnancy by delaying ovulation, so the egg and sperm never meet up. Studies show that ECPs are not effective if a woman has already ovulated.  Myth 3: I partied last night, so taking ECPs now is dangerous.  Alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs don’t change the effectiveness of ECPs. Partying may affect how likely you are to hook up , but there’s no reason for it to affect your decision to take EC the next day. In general, the benefits of taking ECPs far outweigh the risks—especially since not taking it can mean dealing with the risks that come with pregnancy . It makes sense if you think about it like this:   EC is a one-time dose of a higher level of a hormone your body makes naturally.  Pregnancy is a nine-month dose of those same hormones at even higher levels.   Myth 4: If I take ECPs today, I’m covered if we have unprotected sex again tomorrow.  ECPs are only good to protect against one act of unprotected sex .  They work by blocking ovulation, but only for a few days, so if you take them and have unprotected sex again afterwards, you’re significantly increasing your risk of a pregnancy.  If you have unprotected sex again within a few days of taking the pills, there will be more sperm waiting in the fallopian tubes when the egg is eventually released.  Myth 5: ECPs will mess up your fertility if you take them too many times.  There is zero evidence that taking ECPs multiple times affects future fertility. Probably the biggest risk of taking ECPs multiple times is an eventual unintended pregnancy. ECPs prevent about 7 out of 8 pregnancies that would otherwise occur, meaning they’re less effective than other types of birth control like the pill, patch, and ring.  ECPs are way less effective than the IUD or implant .  Also, depending on your health insurance, it may be expensive to take them repeatedly .  If you find you’re taking ECPs regularly, it’s probably more affordable—not to mention more effective—to talk to your health care provider about which non-emergency method of birth control could be right for you. But if you ever have an emergency situation, don’t believe the rumors—ECPs are a safe and effective second chance to prevent an accidental pregnancy.  Maria Isabel Rodriguez, MD, is an Obstetrician/Gynecologist and a clinical fellow in Family Planning at the University of California, San Francisco. She likes working with women of all ages and believes that reproductive health is critical to not just the health of women, but making healthy families and happy communities. She surfs badly, but likes it anyways. Dr. Rodriguez is a faculty member at UCSF. However, the views and opinions expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the Regents of the University of California, UCSF, UCSF Medical Center, or any entities or units thereof.     read more about:  emergency contraception , effectiveness , cost , birth control , myths , provider perspective      read our commenting policy »   A NOTE ABOUT COMMENTING /   We trust that sexy brain of yours to post with good intentions. And we promise to respect your perspective, thoughts, insight, advice, humor, cheeky anecdotes, and tips. We’ll even indulge a healthy rant or two. But we must ask that you cite your source if you want to challenge any scientific or technical information on Bedsider. And please note: We will not tolerate abusive comments, racism, personal attacks, or bullying. That’s why we take our time to read every comment before it is posted. (That’s also why there’s some lag time before your comment shows up.) We greatly appreciate your presence here and welcome your participation 24/7/365. Just remember to be respectful and you’ll be good to go.  Oh! One more thing: We do our best to answer questions in a timely manner, but we can’t guarantee an immediate reply. (And we don’t answer questions that are already answered in the article you’re commenting on.) If you ask a question and need a response right now , we partner with San Francisco Sex Information (SFSI) to give you free, accurate, confidential info on sex and reproductive health. Their phone number is 415-989-SFSI (7374) and here are their hours . And if you have an urgent medical question, please contact your doctor or a local health center . We’re here to help you stay informed, but only a medical professional can advise you on personal health concerns.       add new comment        follow Bedsider /   subscribe to Provider Perspectives »                 explore methods /      Emergency Contraception  EC provides the possibility of prevention after the fact.    learn more about emergency contraception »      related features /   Guys Guide  emergency contraception        Provider Perspective  The emergency contraceptive that keeps going... and going…       Article  The girl’s guide to getting emergency contraception       Article  How well does emergency contraception work?        most popular features /   Provider Perspective  Having a miscarriage: 3 things you should know       Provider Perspective  Depo SubQ: The do-it-yourself birth control shot       Article  Safe travels : Birth control when you’re abroad       Article  Getting birth control online           HAVE AN ACCOUNT?  Get in here! Your free, totally private Bedsider account lets you subscribe to our sexy/helpful articles, schedule birth control reminders, find health resources near you, and more. All it takes is an email address and password.     I'm new to Bedsider   I already have a Bedsider account     email     password     confirm password     zip      continue »     email     password      continue »       WHERE DO YOU WANT IT?  We can email you Provider Perspectives or send them by text message.      sms     email me       We only use this number to text your subscriptions.      sign me up                  birth control methods    explore methods    compare methods    questions      where to get it    health centers    delivered to your door    emergency contraception      reminders    birth control reminders    appointment reminders      features    articles    real stories    guy's guide    fact or fiction    frisky fridays      social                                      you   your account  your reminders     providers   join us     college   get involved  faq      us    about bedsider    contact us    terms of use    privacy policy    donate       We believe knowledge is power .
We believe babies are best when you're ready .
We believe in you .  Call Bedsider for free birth control info (888) 321-0383       x  DISCÚLPANOS  Solo tenemos este contenido en inglés.   está bien, lo leeré en inglés  prefiero visitar Bedsider en español »                                   Search        Search  Groups Most Popular Find a Group Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Birth Month First Year Families Health Stages Featured and Popular Contests Deals International United States Start a Group Community Guidelines More Most Popular Find a Group Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Birth Month First Year Families Health Stages Featured and Popular Contests Deals International United States Start a Group Community Guidelines Groups News Getting Pregnant Pregnancy First Year Toddler Family Baby Products Registry Home  >  Groups  >  Families  >  Young Moms  >  Plan b fail? Young Moms 8.23K posts  35.5K members Archived Discussion  This discussion is archived and locked for posting  See active discussions on Young Moms i Plan b fail? iratsavong wrote: Has anyone ever taken plan b and have it not work? I've taken it about two times in the past and my bf and I had unprotected sex after I took it and it was effective. But this time, I remember taking it April 12th after having an accident on April 11th. Then again, thinking if we had unprotected sex after, it would work like before. But then I found out I was pregnant a couple of weeks later. My midwife thinks it wasn't effective and now I'm confused about how far along I am. Somewhere in between 5 and 7 weeks now. Sort by:  Oldest  Newest  47 Posts m  mysteriousswolf It couldve been an mistake in the manufacturing of the pill. Or it coulve been that his sperm and your egg met before you could take the pill. I believe u can wait up to three days after an accident but you decrease the chance of it working. In those days you have a chance to become pregnant. i  iratsavong @mysteriousswolf  Yeah, I took the same plan b the last two times but this time the pharmacy didn't have the regular one so they gave me a different kind.. I'm wondering if maybe that had something to do with it. m  mysteriousswolf Ive personally took plan b once just as a safety net for unprotected sex. It was a scary moment for me because i was young and not willing to have that guys kid. I made a decision to always have protected sex whether it be condoms or birth control. My sister though had gotten pregnant while she was on birth control, the pills were messed up. Now shes on the patch which is more effective. So i believe it totally is possible for the company to mess up. Im now pregnant by choice with the love of my life. i  iratsavong @mysteriousswolf  That's crazy, these pills are supposed to be very effective lol. But yes, my bf and I are excited and happy about the pregnancy now although, it wasn't planned. h  hawkeygirl4 @iratsavong  The more you take plan b, the less effective it is the next time you take it. And the effectiveness just keeps declining the more often you take it... Also, I've never heard of it working when you take it prior to having unprotected sex. You have about 3 days after the incident, but I have never heard of anyone taking it before an incident... So I'm gunna bet that that's why it didn't work the last time. When you get your first ultrasound, they will be able to tell you exactly how far along you are. From there, you can calculate the conception date. i  iratsavong @hawkeygirl4  I took it AFTER the incident A  AngryWhopper @iratsavong  You sound pretty irresponsible. Perhaps next time you should probably try some more long term birth control and have protected sex. i  ilovedexter @iratsavong  You can't have unprotected sex after you take it. Why aren't you using birth control or condoms? s  soon2bmumo23 @iratsavong  My friend did. Her son is three in august now. A few girls I went to school with had the same thing happen. Plan b doesn't mean it's guaranteed. i  iratsavong @AngryWhopper  If taking a plan b and being on birth control pills is irresponsible, I'm sure you need to look that word up again. I did try to prevent this, but it happened anyway. Thanks. i  iratsavong @soon2bmumo23  Must be a miracle then :) m  mysteriousswolf I have a theory that no matter what it is, there is no such thing as 100% effectiveness. There is that 1% chance it doesnt work. A condom can break, birth control pills can have the days mixed up and the plan b has that chance to not work. Sex is something that should happen between two loving adults because that 1% chance... May led you to a life you never expected and may not have intended. Despite being only 20, I knew i was ready for this step in my life, my fiance and i talked about it even before we decided to be pregnant. Because yours was unexpected, you have life decisions to make for you guys as a couple and parents. Im thrilled that despite the plan b failing that you and your bf are happy about the baby. Despite the hormones and morning sickness being pregnant im finding is quite a miracle. Like i told my fiance, i feel like superhero... Only im hungry and tired all the time. m  mysteriousswolf @AngryWhopper  Um no offense but plan b is a pill to be used after unprotected sex to prevent pregnancy. While maybe the use of condoms and birth control might have helped prevent the pregnancy they arent 100% either. i  ilovedexter @iratsavong  You said you had unprotected sex. Why would you use plan B if you are on birth control? K  Kirso2859 Plan B is only 95% effective if taken within 24 hours. That's the reason it's called plan B, it's not as effective as other contraception methods. It's much less likely to be a mistake in manufacturing or because they gave you a different type of pill, it's just not the most reliable way to prevent pregnancy. " Then again, thinking if we had unprotected sex after, it would work like before." If you did have unprotected sex again after taking it, which it really did seem like you were saying, it would not have been effective in preventing pregnancy from that incident. Assuming you conceived around the 11th of April, you will be around 7 weeks pregnant, you'll get a more accurate estimation at your first ultrasound though.  a  ashmazing20 @mysteriousswolf  Exactly!!! G  GiaLea @iratsavong  It almost sounds like either 1. The pills were messed up on manufacturers side or 2. Kind of like with pain meds or antibiotics, you built up a tolerance. Just because you have used it a couple times before it is possible. But regardless, no birth control method is 100%... I got pregnant while using condoms. I would set up an ultrasound, explain what happened and wit an ultrasound they should be able to tell you exactly where you're at :) E  Escape034 @iratsavong  I dont think you said you were on birth control. Saying you had unprotected sex would mean the opposite... k  kileyxo @iratsavong  I was switching birth controls so I was off it for a month and had an "accident" on the 20th, took a Plan B on the 21st then had antother "accident" on the 22nd and I'm 95% sure my daughter was conceived the 22nd. the Plan B pill says it's effective for three days so I thought it would be fine... surprise lol Related Articles & Discussions American Academy of Pediatrics: First Dose of Hep B Vaccine Should Be Given to Baby Within 24 Hours of Birth  Here's why the American Academy of Pediatrics just updated its Hep B recommendations for baby. m PLAN B FAILED Created by mommyofanangle99  Last post 8 months ago 16 posts m plan b failed Created by mommyofanangle99  Last post 11 months ago 10 posts m Plan B failed? Created by mommaroo02  Last post 12 months ago 11 posts Help  Glossary  < All Group Archived Discussions   What To Expect  Community Trying To Conceive » Hot Topics » Baby Names » Why We Archive  What to Expect has thousands of open discussions happening each day. We work hard to share our most timely and active conversations with you.  Archived discussions are usually a bit older and not as active as other community content.  We keep them up because there are a ton of great conversations here and we believe you deserve to see them all.    Get the Latest Stories From What to Expect in Your Inbox! Sign Up Follow Us On            About Us Contact Us Advertise About Heidi Murkoff Accessibility AdChoices  What to Expect Foundation What to Expect Bookstore Privacy Policy Editorial Policy Terms of Use Help         What to Expect is a Ziff Davis company along with Computer Shopper • ExtremeTech • Geek • AskMen • IGN • Offers.com • SpeedTest.net • TechBargains • Toolbox • Everyday Health • MedPage Today • PCMag The material on this website is provided for educational purposes only and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment, or in place of therapy or medical care. Use of this site is subject to our terms of use and privacy policy. © 2018 What to ExpectThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Contraception and Birth Control  Pharmaceuticals  Medicine and Healthcare What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? Update Cancel ad by Techylive Great food made easy, that’s what it’s all about. Why can’t fast food be good food? We help you make the freshest and the crunchiest new bites. Learn More at healthy-food-recipes.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 1 Answer   Andeline Parsnipp Answered Jul 31, 2017 · Author has 85 answers and 24.5k answer views Here is an answer straight from www.webmd.com: If you take it within 72 hours after you've had unprotected sex, Plan B One-Step can reduce the risk of pregnancy by up to 89%. If you take Plan B One-Step within 24 hours, it is about 95% effective. 583 Views · Answer requested by  Khaiah Arrington Related Questions How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? How do I know if Plan B worked? How long does Plan B take to start working? What exactly does Plan B (or other after-sex pill) do? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? How effective are Plan B pills at contraception? What are common side effects of the Plan B pill? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? How can Plan B pills fail? Could she be pregnant even if she took the plan b pill? Why are the Plan B pills so effective? Is it worth getting a Plan B pill (emergency contraceptive) if my girlfriend is not ovulating? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? Does Plan B work if you have already ovulated? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? How do I know if Plan B worked? How long does Plan B take to start working? What exactly does Plan B (or other after-sex pill) do? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? How effective are Plan B pills at contraception? What are common side effects of the Plan B pill? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? How can Plan B pills fail? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Morning After Pill  Contraception and Birth Control  Getting Pregnant  Obstetrics and Gynecology  Pregnancy Could she be pregnant even if she took the plan b pill? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers Quora User , Uncommonly gifted with common sense. Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 3.9k answers and 8.8m answer views Of course there is a chance, even the Plan B pill isn’t 100%. Though I am going to call BULLSHIT on your claim about paranoia and sex. If you were actually paranoid about either an unwanted pregnancy or dick rot(STD/STI) you would have worn a condom. You wouldn’t be having unprotected sex if you were, and you would look at getting actual factual information about sex and have read the insert/instructions on the Plan B pill. You are more the kid who is afraid his parents will find out he broke a rule, not actually paranoid. So you should be worried, not just about pregnancy, but STD/STIs and your ignorance of how birth control and safe sex work. FYI another name for people who use the pull out method like you do…PARENTS. You might want to get some education about sex before you have it again. 9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? Related Questions More Answers Below What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? Ask New Question   Margaret Challen , studied at The University of British Columbia Updated Dec 19, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 1.9m answer views It's probably fine, THIS time. But for heaven’s sake go and buy a box of condoms, or if you're too embarrassed to be seen buying condoms at a pharmacy, then ask a less inhibited friend to buy them for you, or get free condoms at a sexual health clinic. They give them out no questions asked. If you are afraid of what your parents will say if they find them, hide them somewhere. Withdrawal is NOT a method of birth control. I can't remember exact stats off the top of my head, but there is a strong likelihood that if you keep having unprotected sex using the withdrawal method, your classmate will get pregnant pretty soon. Also, the withdrawal method leads to bad sex for both of you. You're worrying “should I pull out now? What about now?” When you should be enjoying your impending orgasm. And your partner is preoccupied with “will he pull out in time? Will I get pregnant?” when she should be enjoying intercourse. Finally, if you have unprotected sex again, even if you do pull out, your partner will have to take Plan B again. Plan B is expensive, and it's not that good for the female body to take it repeatedly. Have as much sex as you like, but have it with condoms or don't have it at all. Unless of course you have a burning desire to make your parents into young grandparents. But you'll fuck up your life and that of your sexual partner if you get her pregnant. It's not the 16th century anymore. Everybody (except maybe some homeschooled kids in Kansas or Mississippi whose fundie parents have deliberately kept them ignorant) knows what condoms are and how to use them. Be smart! 2.1k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by BetterHelp If you are struggling, consider online therapy with BetterHelp. You are worth it. Start Now at betterhelp.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Dansby Parker , former Unicorn Farm Intern Answered Dec 22, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 3.6m answer views What is her BMI? Studies have shown that Plan B is nearly ineffective for women in the obese category (30+ BMI). If she's not obese, there shouldn't be too much worry because Plan B is pretty effective otherwise. You'll just have to wait until she gets her next period and if she is late then she needs to take a pregnancy test. That being said, you need to learn about sex before you have it again - EVEN if you are married when you do. Marriage isn't a magical thing that automatically makes you able to support umpteen children. The pull-out method is a non-method. It simply does not work. Don't ever use this method again unless you want to be a father. If you want to have sex, make sure you have condoms that have been stored properly and not expired. It's also good for the woman to be on the pill or have an IUD if you want to be very sure. It's not great for a woman's health to take Plan B every time she has sex (although it is better than abortion or unwanted pregnancy), so please try to be more responsible in the future. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Kelsey Hicks , I had a C-section in 2014, and have been pregnant Answered Dec 21, 2016 · Author has 1k answers and 5.7m answer views First of all, breathe. I'm glad you're aware that unprotected sex is not a smart move unless you want to risk pregnancy. If you pulled out in time- that lowers the chance of pregnancy significantly. If she took the Plan B pill within 24-48 hours of sex- that lowers the chance of pregnancy astronomically. Take a deep breathe and ask her to tell you when her period starts. If you pulled out and used Plan B as emergency contraceptive, then there's only a small, small chance she will get pregnant. It'll be anywhere from a few days to 4 weeks before you will get an answer. Try not to panic. 1.1k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by 23andMe Explore your DNA with 23andMe. Learn more about your health, traits and ancestry through 75+ genetic reports. Learn More at 23andme.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Claudio Delise , Retired Ob-Gyn Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 2.5k answers and 1.5m answer views She probably is not pregnant. Plan B is 90% effective if used within 72 hours. Withdrawal is only 78% effective even when used properly. So a rough probability of pregnancy (.22)*(.10) is less than 2% . This is upper limit estimate. It is even less if you knew where she was on her cycle. So if your paranoia is not too excessive you should be OK (comparable to the use of condoms for example) 1.2k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Chuy Visente Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Jessica Evans , Health Adviser (2011-present) Answered Dec 20, 2016 · Author has 55 answers and 40.1k answer views No medicine is 100% effective but with plan B pill , the chances of getting pregnant are very less. 130 Views Quora User , Certified Midwife Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 143 answers and 364.1k answer views More than 95% chance she wouldn't get pregnant, don't worry. Next time use protection, don't be so careless. 717 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? Related Questions When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Could I possibly be pregnant after plan b Taken within 12 hours? How does Plan B pill affect your pregnancy? Am I pregnant? I'm feeling vomiting and headache after took Plan B pill. Why is the Plan B pill not suited for routinary use? What would cause the Plan B pill to fail? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Plan B (pharmaceutical)  Contraception and Birth Control  Pregnancy What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 8 Answers   Sophia Yen , MD, CEO of PandiaHealth.com, Adolescent Medicine specialist Answered Jan 10, 2016 · Author has 270 answers and 330.9k answer views Plan B can work out to 120 hours (5 days after). However it all depends where you are in your cycle when you have sex. If you had sex approximately 14 days after the 1st day of your cycle, then you were are VERY HIGH risk of pregnancy. If you were like 28 days from the 1st day of your last pregnancy, then less likely you will get pregnancy. Research shows that if you take Plan B 2 days after, your risk of pregnancy is about 3%. However if you are that 3%, then you are 100% pregnant. In the future, you may want to consider getting on long term birth control (IUD, Implant, shot, ring, patch, pill) rather than using emergency contraception as your main method. Also, for Emergency Contraception (EC) consider asking your doctor to prescribe you ulipristal acetate in ADVANCE of need (in case you use condoms and they pop or you get on one of the methods and run out or forget to take them on time). Ulipristal works better on days 3-5 than levonorgestrel (Plan B) and works better in heavier women. 54.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What are the chances of getting pregnant if one consumes 2 contraceptive pills within 2 days? Is it the morning after pill or am I pregnant? What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Ask New Question   Behati Mateo , Contrarian, Philosopher Answered Dec 6, 2015 · Author has 886 answers and 859.5k answer views You have a 72 hour window, but honestly I'd be more worried about picking up an STD if I were you, Plan B won't protect you against HIV or herpes,or any of the other infections 13.8k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Jasika Rao , blogger Answered Jan 14, 2016 · Author has 68 answers and 51.6k answer views First of all however like plan-b and any products which you have to use. If you are using without many time, by overdose, by miss then you can't get best results . If you take it within 72 hours after you've had unprotected sex, Plan B One-Step can reduce the risk of pregnancy by up to 89%. If you take Plan B One-Step within 24 hours, it is about 95% effective. Use Plan B exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor. Do not use the medication in larger amounts or for longer than recommended. The first dose of Plan B must be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex (no later than 72 hours afterward). The second dose must be taken 12 hours after the first dose. The timing of these doses is very important for this medication to be effective. Call your doctor right away if you vomit within 1 hour after taking either dose of Plan B. Do not take another dose until you talk with your doctor. You should be examined by your doctor within 3 weeks after taking Plan B. The doctor will need to confirm that you are not pregnant and that this medication has not caused any harmful effects. If your period is late by 1 week or longer after the expected date, you may be pregnant. Get a pregnancy test and contact your doctor if you are pregnant. Plan B will not terminate a pregnancy that has already begun (the fertilized egg has attached to the uterus). Store Plan B at room temperature away from moisture and heat. 18.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Joanna Lewis , Medical Advison In USA Answered Feb 17, 2016 If you have sex without using other contraception, your regular birth control fails, or you are made to have sex against your will, take action right away to learn what your options are. Even though emergency contraception is often called the Plan B it may be effective for up to 5 days (120 hours) after unprotected sex. 3.8k Views · View Upvoters   Mary Casey , lived in New York City (2004-2015) Answered Apr 14, 2017 · Author has 484 answers and 88.2k answer views The chances are slight. But, you should work on getting on regular birth control instead of focusing on taking Plan B. What if he expects to cum in you multiple times on different days in the future? It could end up being more costly to keep taking Plan B than regular birth control. 3.4k Views · Answer requested by  Batth Kaur   Gil Lambert , former Marriage Celebrant (2009-2014) Answered Mar 18, 2018 · Author has 1.1k answers and 190.8k answer views A levonorgestrel morning-after pill like Plan B One Step, Next Choice One Dose, Take Action, My Way, and AfterPill can lower your chance of getting pregnant by 75-89% if you take it within 3 days after unprotected sex. You can take Plan B, My Way, Next Choice, and other levonorgestrelmorning-after pills up to 5 days after unprotected sex. But the longer you wait to take it, the less effective it is. 583 Views   Joseph Collins , Retiree living in the Central Pacific region Answered Mar 18, 2018 · Author has 92 answers and 10.2k answer views If you waited 2–3 days since you were intimate and during a time when you were ovulating your chances of getting pregnant are very high. 567 Views   Christina Byrum , Became a parent as a teen Answered Jun 29, 2017 · Author has 414 answers and 163.8k answer views Plan b works by preventing ovulation (if it hasn't already occurred). So it really depends on what point of your cycle you are at when you take it. 4.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Sheenamae Bagohin Related Questions What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 5 days after? What does it means if there's brown spotting after taking Plan B? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... How soon can you get pregnant after taking Plan B? How effective is plan-b if taken 2 hours after? Can I be pregnant even after having a period? Can I get pregnant 9 days after my period after taking salt and water? Is it possible that after taking Unwanted 72 the test will come back negative after 6 days of taking the pill? What are the chances of getting... Can I get pregnant 2 days after my period on a 28 day cycle? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the chances of getting pregnant if one consumes 2 contraceptive pills within 2 days? Is it the morning after pill or am I pregnant? What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 5 days after? What does it means if there's brown spotting after taking Plan B? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... How soon can you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact             Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions  Search form  Search  Vitality How to Live Better, Longer   6 Must-Have Tips To Awaken Skin All Winter Long Are you ready for the cold dark days that come with Daylight Saving Time? Prepare for winter skin before turning your clock back on Sunday.   To Lose Weight, Skip Dinner A Few Days A Week New research suggests that skipping dinner helps you burn more fat in the evening and may even help with weight loss.   What Is Aspirin — And Should You Take It Daily? The main ingredient in aspirin, salicin, is the oldest pain reliever in history, but it took time and science before it became the drug we recognize today. Under the Hood Behavior, Neuroscience & Your Brain   Runner's High? You're Growing New Brain Cells Your brain creates new cell growth and repair during aerobic exercises, such as running.   Science Explains Why Songs Get Stuck In Your Head Science explains why you can't get that catchy song out of your head.   Sunshine Actually Makes You Happy In a recent study, people reported more mental distress when the days were shorter and there was less sunshine. Innovation Technology & the Business of Medicine   These 2 Genes May Predict Your Breast Cancer Survival Rate Findings from a new study could help more women to overcome breast cancer.   'Mess-Free' Period Sex Is Now A Thing A new product promises to make sex during menstruation less of a mess.   We’re Closer Than Ever To Finding Cause Of Autism Researchers discovered hundreds of genes that could be connected with autism spectrum disorder. The Hill Healthcare, Policy & Governance   Veterans Have A Problem With Donald Trump’s Comment About PTSD Veterans did not respond well to Donald Trump's comments on PTSD, a common mental health disorder many soldiers face.   Countries Should Adopt Sugar Tax, Says World Health Organization The WHO wants countries to start taxing sugary drinks, and use the revenue to fight health problems sugar may worsen.   Where Do Hillary Clinton And Donald Trump Stand On Abortion? Here's what the presidential candidates have said on the controversial topic of abortion and reproductive rights. The Grapevine Breaking News and Trends   Condom-Free Male Birth Control Shot May Soon Be A Thing A male birth control shot may be on the horizon, and may provide competition for another product being tested — the male pill.   Will Someone Survive A Gunshot Wound? New Tool Could Answer Researchers have developed a new tool that has predicted with 96 percent accuracy whether people would survive a gunshot wound to the brain.   An Easier Way To Screen For Birth Defects May Be In Our Future Wayne State University researchers have developed a test that may be able to screen for birth defects as early as five weeks into pregnancy. Weird Medicine Science is Stranger Than Fiction   Would Eating Human Brains Make You Sick? Have a craving for human brains this Halloween? We don't suggest eating them.   4 Real Medical Illnesses That Were Blamed On Witchcraft Throughout history, people have attributed scary looking and unfamiliar illnesses to dark forces, including witches and demons.   You Wouldn't Expect These 6 Things To Cause Hallucinations People are generally aware of the most common causes of hallucinations, like schizophrenia and a really high fever. But lesser known are the more rare causes; here are six you probably haven't heard about. US / World  US / World Consumer News  Consumer News Policy / Biz  Policy / Biz Science / Tech  Science / Tech Drugs  Drugs Healthy Living  Healthy Living         Vitality Repeated Use Of Morning-After Pill: Plan B Effects On Breast Cancer, Fertility  Sep 29, 2016 06:40 PM By  Lizette Borreli   @lizcelineb  l.borreli@medicaldaily.com         This is how taking Plan B more than once affects your risk for fertility and breast cancer.  Photo courtesy of Pixabay, Public Domain    Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail You're making out with your boyfriend, clothes begin to come off, and before you know it, you've had sex — unprotected. After the heat of the moment wears off, you rush to the pharmacy, grab over-the-counter Plan B One-Step, and swallow the pill to prevent pregnancy. But what happens if you take Plan B more than once? Plan B is the most common levonorgestrel-only pill that only contains progestin — a synthetic version of the naturally-occurring hormone progesterone found in some birth control pills. It is designed to prevent pregnancy. The special formulation of hormones should be taken within 3 days (72 hours) of unprotected sex or birth control failure to reduce the risk of pregnancy up to 89 percent, according to Plan B . However, the sooner you take it, the more effective it is. It works by either temporarily stopping the release of an egg from the ovary, preventing fertilization, or preventing a fertilized egg from attaching to the uterus. Plan B: Short-Term Side Effects Irregular Periods Using emergency contraception, like Plan B,  comes with short-term effects like painful menstruation and nausea. The pills might lead to unexpected bleeding (which is not dangerous, and should be resolved by your next period, according to Princeton University ). It might also cause your next period to come early or late. Some women may experience spotting a few days after taking Plan B One-Step. Menstrual bleeding patterns are often irregular among women using progestin only contraception. A 2010 study comparing levonorgestrel and ulipristal acetate (ella) showed generally similar side effects for the two medications. Approximately 20 percent of women in each group experienced headaches following EC treat; up to 14 percent experienced painful menstruation; and up to 12 percent experienced nausea. Women who took ulipristal acetate had their next period on average 2.1 days later than expected, while women taking levonorgestrel began their next period 1.2 days earlier than expected, but the duration of periods was not affected. So, what are its long-term effects? Plan B: Continuous Use Fertility A common misconception is that frequent use of Plan B can affect a woman's fertility. However, there are no health risks to using Plan B as much as you need. "It's not necessarily bad to use as a regular form of birth control because it is simply a higher dose of a regular progestin-only birth control pill," said gynecologist Diana Hoppe to Shape Magazine . Moreover, "oral emergency contraception may be used more than once, even within the same menstrual cycle" according to the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Simply put, there's no reason to believe it would have any effect on fertility, unless possibly if you begin trying to become pregnant immediately after taking the pill. There are no irreversible effects on fertility following exposures to levonorgestrel or progestins in general. Moreover, the biggest risk of taking Plan B multiple times is an eventual unintended pregnancy. Plan B prevents pregnancy about 75 percent of the time if no other birth control pill was used, compared to the birth control pill or IUD that are around 98 or 99 percent effective, respectively. Breast Cancer There are two types of birth control pills available in the U.S. — oral contraceptives that contain man-made versions of estrogen and progesterone, and the mini pill, which only contains progestin. Naturally occurring estrogen and progesterone can influence the development and growth of some cancers, according to the National Cancer Institute . Therefore, because some birth control pills contain female hormones, researchers are interested in establishing whether there is any link between these widely use contraceptives and cancer risk. In 2005, the World Health Organization (WHO) officially classified oral contraceptives as a Class 1 carcinogen. Plan B is composed of levonorgestrel, which is a potent progestin found in some of today’s birth control pills. A 2006 study published in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings noted that taking the birth control pill before pregnancy results in a 44 percent increased risk of developing breast cancer prior to age 50. The study analysis noted that 21 out of 23 retrospective studies have shown an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. On the other hand, oral contraceptive use has consistently been found to be linked to a reduced risk of ovarian cancer. In a previous study , researchers found that the longer a woman used oral contraceptives, the more her risk of ovarian cancer decreased. The risk decreased by 10 to 12 percent after 1 year of use; approximately 50 percent after 5 years of use. The research regarding oral contraceptives and cancer risks remains inconsistent and still warrants further research. The Consensus Plan B is an excellent alternative as an emergency contraception when preventing unwanted pregnancies. However, it’s not designed to be used as a regular form of contraception.Taking Plan B twice in a couple of months won’t do much harm. Although docs agree there’s no clear danger from taking Plan B more than once or twice, it’s not recommended as a replacement for regular birth control. "If someone is having sex even just three to four times a month, you're still talking about a couple hundred dollars a month," said Streicher. Talk to your gynecologist for a healthier everyday alternative for safe sex.  Comment  Share  Tweet  Share  E-mail                     Most Read                Vitality Under the Hood Innovation The Hill The Grapevine Weird Medicine Conditions   About Contact Advertising Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Subscribe  © 2018 Newsweek Media Group All rights reserved. Medical Daily is for informational purposes and should not be considered medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendation. Read more .                     U.S. Edition U.S. Edition International Middle East 日本 한국 Pakistan Polska  Tue, Apr 10, 2018  Sign In  Subscribe    Search form  Search  U.S. World Business Tech & Science Culture Sports Health Opinion Green Rankings      How Plan B Works: Six Things You Always Wondered About Emergency Contraception By  Newsweek   On 8/25/09 at 10:16 AM   Share         News by Sarah Kliff  Thanks in part to Plan B&apos;s complicated history, there are a lot of myths and misunderstandings about emergency contraception. And despite the fact that the pill has been on the market since 1999, there&apos;s stillsome confusion about how it works. First, don&apos;t confuse Plan B,which prevents pregnancy, with RU-486, the pill used in a medical abortion.  “They’re entirely and absolutely different,” says James Trussell, who directs Princeton&apos;s Office of Population Research and runs Not-2-Late , a Web site and hotline devoted to emergency contraception.  RU-486contains a synthetic steroid called mifepristone, which interferes with the body’s production of progesterone necessary to sustain pregnancy. Plan B has nothing to do with progesterone. Instead, it inhibits or delays ovulation. Plan B is not effective if the process of implantation has begun. But even sex-savvy women and men who have that fact down can get confused about the basics of Plan B. That&apos;s why we&apos;ve put together a list of some hard facts about how it works, how it doesn&apos;t, and what you should know: Recommended Slideshows 51 In Pictures: The 50 Most Powerful Military Forces in the World 44 In Pictures: Every U.S. President Ranked From Best to Worst 51 In Pictures: Top 50 U.S. Cities Ranked by Quality of Life And Average Salary You don&apos;t need to take the pills 12 hours apart Plan B comes with two pills and instructions to take “the second tablet …12 hours after the first dose.” Not a problem if you get the pharmacy at 9 a.m., but a little more inconvenient if your schedule—sexual or otherwise—finds you in need of emergency contraception (EC) after noon. Trussell assures us that you needn&apos;t stay up all night or set your alarm for some ungodly hour: Plan B is just as effective when both pills are taken at once. In fact, the new Plan B One-Step has the same active ingredients of two Plan B pills—1.5mg of a progestin called levonorgestrel—in one tablet. Most EC sold in other countries is a single-pill product. So why have we been advised to space Plan B 12 hours apart? Because it was originally tested as a two-pill product with lower levonorgestrel doses. “Then people said, maybe we could put them all in one, but the danger there is that you might have more side effects,” says Trussell. “But it showed no side effects and the efficacy was the same.” High doses of your birth control MAY substitute for EC in a pinch  Keep up with this story and more by subscribing now It’s not ideal, but it&apos;s doable─if you have the right birth control. Each birth-control brand has different levels of the active ingredients, only some of which can be used as an emergency contraceptive. But there are a decent number that can: flip to page 23 of Trussell’s review article to see if yours is among them. You’ll see that some oral contraceptives can replicate birth control with two pills, but with some it takes six. However, Trussell cautions that studies have show Plan B—which is a progestin-only pill—to be more effective EC than oral contraceptives, which are combined progestin and estrogen pills. So all things considered, he’d still recommend Plan B over an increased dose of oral contraceptives. There won&apos;t be blood  After taking Plan B, some people expect to see spotting, thinking perhaps that the drug might affect the uterine lining and kickstart an early period. This isn&apos;t the case, though some women will experience bleeding after taking Plan B. Trussell describes it as “not rare” but also “not common.” The bleeding is called a “withdrawal bleed” and is not menstruation. Rather, it’s caused by the change in hormone levels. It’s more common when Plan B is taken earlier in the cycle (why it’s more common earlier in the cycle, says Trussell, is unknown). (Not-2-Late has more information on bleeding.) Plan B can alter when the next period occurs: it can be a delayed or come early. This is also related to changes in hormone levels. You can protect yourself for the rest of the month If you&apos;re taking Plan B because you missed several oral contraceptives and don&apos;t want to risk it (a smart move) you don’t have to wait for your next period to get back on track. In fact, he makers of Plan B and Plan B One-Step recommend “regular method of contraception be started immediately after.” Trussell adds that, while you can start an oral contraceptive the day after EC, you still need to use condoms or abstain for seven days, since oral contraceptives aren’t effective until you’ve been taking them for a week. There&apos;s more time than you think (but don&apos;t delay) Plan B should definitely be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex. That’ll increase the odds you’re taking Plan B early enough to inhibit ovulation, thus decreasing the odds of pregnancy. While the pill is indicated for use up to 72 hours after unprotected sex, some studies have shown Plan B to be effective up through 120 hours. Its still better to aim for earlier, but Plan B is not completely ineffective after three days. “There’s no magic difference between 72 and 73 hours,” says Trussell. “The longer you wait the less effective it appears to be. But it’s still much more effective than a prayer.” Amen to that. EC&apos;s Effectiveness Does Not Decrease With Use The more one takes Plan B after unprotected sex, the more likely it is that you’ll get pregnant─but not because the pill is less effective: the odds of a pregnancy after Plan B are still pretty slim. It reduces the risk of pregnancy by 89 percent. Trussell draws an analogy to the odds of crashing a car: “If you make 1,000 trips, your chances of getting into a car wreck are more than if you take one trip. It’s a cumulative process.” Likewise, the more you use Plan B, the more likely it becomes that you’ll have a failure, even with Plan B’s success rate remaining the same. Request Reprint or Submit Correction         Most Read     Sign up for our Newsletter  Sign up  Update your preferences »   Latest Slideshows   51  50 Poorest Members of Congress   51  Royal Family Photo Album: Prince William, Kate Middleton and Children   55  In Pictures: Mexico Border Patrol Agents Step Up Illegal Immigrant Arrests   51  50 Highest Paid American Sports Stars     Choose a Membership That's Perfect for You!   Print & Digital  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Print Only  Weekly magazine, delivered  Daily Newsletter  Website access  Subscribe   Digital Only  Free access to 40+ digital editions  Website access  Daily Newsletter  Subscribe        © 2018 Newsweek LLC About Us Corrections Contact Us Newsweek Media Group Travel Advertise Copyright Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Archive                      Text Only    Full media Version         Get EC 
          NOW | INFO about EC | Q&A about EC | About 
          Us | For Providers | Home   Get 
          EC NOW   INFO about EC   Q&A about EC  About Us   For Providers   Home       Find a Morning After Pill Provider Near You     The Emergency Contraception Website - Your website for the "Morning After"     Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About...   Side Effects  When should I expect my next period after I take emergency contraceptive pills?  You should have a normal period within the next month after taking 
            emergency contraceptive 
            pills (also called " morning 
            after pills " or "day after pills"). Sometimes, 
            emergency contraception 
            can change the length of your monthly menstrual cycle, making your 
            next period come as much as a week earlier or a week later than usual. 
            Some women also find that the hormones in the pills can cause unexpected bleeding , but this is 
            not a common or serious side effect. If your next period is late, 
            you might consider getting a pregnancy 
            test .  Researchers have conducted three studies designed specifically to find 
            out how progestin-only 
            emergency contraceptive pills (like Plan B One-Step or Next Choice )  affect women's bleeding patterns. 
            Although the results were somewhat different, each found there were 
            often changes in a woman's monthly menstrual cycle.  In the first study, women who took the full dose (1.5 mg   levonorgestrel) of this emergency contraceptive at one time in the first three weeks 
            of their monthly menstrual cycles got their period much sooner than 
            expected – and earlier than women who did not take the pills. 
            The study also found that the earlier in their cycle women took the 
            pills, the sooner they got their period. Women who took the full dose 
            of emergency contraception 
            in the fourth week of their cycle got their period at the usual time, 
            but it lasted longer than normal. The ECPs had no effect on the duration of the post-treatment menstrual cycle, but the second period was prolonged. Intermenstrual bleeding was uncommon after ECP use, although more common than among women who had not taken ECPs.    The second study found that women who took the full dose (1.5 mg   levonorgestrel) of this emergency contraceptive at one time within two days before or 
            after ovulation (when the egg is released) got their periods when 
            they expected them. But, on average, women started their periods a 
            day earlier when they used emergency 
            contraception more than two days before ovulation, and their periods 
            generally started two days later if they took the pills more than 
            two days after ovulation. Menstrual period duration increased significantly when ECPs were taken after three days before ovulation in both the treatment and post-treatment cycles. The duration of the post-treatment menstrual cycle remained significantly longer when ECPs were taken more than two days after ovulation. During the treatment cycle, 15% of women experienced intermenstrual bleeding; this was significantly more common when ECPs were taken in the preovulatory phase.    A third study examined the effects of two 0.75 mg levonorgestrel pills taken 12 hours apart. When taken in the follicular phase, ECPs significantly shortened the cycle when compared with usual cycle length; no effect on cycle length was found when ECPs were taken in the periovulatory or luteal phase. The post-treatment cycle length was the same as the usual cycle length.    A study comparing levonorgestrel (like Plan B One-Step, Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice or Levonorgestrel Tablets ) and ulipristal acetate ( ella) found that women taking ulipristal acetate had their next period on average 2.1 days later than expected, while women taking levonorgestrel began their next period 1.2 days earlier than expected, but the duration of periods was not affected.  More details on these studies and bleeding patterns overall can be 
            found in this thorough and up-to-date academic 
            review  of the medical and social science literature on emergency contraception.  ----------   Back to QUESTIONS     Español |  Arabic    My Story           Print this page      This website is operated by the Office 
        of Population Research at Princeton 
        University and by the Association 
        of Reproductive Health Professionals and has no connection with any 
        pharmaceutical company or for-profit organization.      About Us .  EC 
        in the News .  For Providers 
        .  Links .  Site 
        Map .  Privacy            I Need to Get Emergency Contraception NOW  Where can I get Emergency Contraception 
          ("the morning after pill") in the US?  What 
			    brands of birth control pills can be used for EC (in any country)?   Information About Emergency Contraception  The Basics of Emergency Contraception  Emergency Contraceptive Pills 
          ("morning after pills")  The Copper Intrauterine Device ("IUD 
          or Copper T")   Q&A about Emergency Contraception  Well-known Morning After Pill brands  Plan B One-Step . Next Choice One Dose . Postinor . ella      What is Emergency Contraception?  How does emergency contraception work?   Is the Day After Pill 
          the same as the Morning After Pill?   How long do 
          I have to take a "day after pill"?  Can I take it the day before?    What are the side 
          effects of the Morning After Pill?  What are the side effects 
          of progestin-only ECPs?  What are the side effects 
          of combined ECPs?   The difference between the Morning After Pill and the Abortion 
          Pill  How the morning after pill works  How the Abortion Pill works (also 
          known as RU-486 or Mifeprex)        © 2017 Office of Population Research & Association of Reproductive Health Professionals  website design by DDA           EXPERT ADVICE     COMMUNITY     BLOG     MISSION MOTHERHOOD        Log in  |  Sign up         Community Home   COMMUNITY           Birth Clubs    Groups    Mom Answers    My Stuff    Photos     Shopping          Track your baby's development, week by week    Join now                                  Home   /   Getting Pregnant Q&A;    /  Getting Pregnant Q&A;         Could I Be Pregnant? Q&A;    Getting Pregnant Q&A;    Fertility Problems & Solutions Q&A;                                Can I get Pregnant after taking Plan B?      I was on my new birth control for two days when the condom broke while my husband and i we having sex. I took Plan B 24 hrs later. what are my chances of getting pregnant. We have a 3 month old and I can't have a baby again this soon!! I'm soo scared!                  mrs_goose    Asked 2/24/08         Answer this question        Mom Answers ( 7 )   Best answers   Most recent      BEST ANSWER   I came back here to answer my own question, I was really looking for updates from others when I was asking the questions so here goes. Plan b is supposed to stall your ovulation. However if you already ovulated then it will try to stop the egg from fertilizing. If that has happened as well then it will make it so that the egg cannot implant and thus make you pregnant. If all of those things have already happened by the time you take Plan b then you are pregnant and plan b will do nothing for you. It does not give an abortion, it is like a super dose of birth control.
Now to answer the question I had asked before, can you become pregnant after unprotected (or failed protection) sex, if you decide to use plan b. Yes you can, I did. I got + on 3 hpt's and 2 - on doctor tests, but I insisted on a blood test which was + same day as the last -. I am now 6 weeks pregnant with baby #4. We were not planning on another baby but will welcome our sneaky lil surprise with love as always                 confusedturtle    Answered 8/16/11                5 found this helpful     I am in a similar situation. I have 3 kids and hubby and I werent planning on having anymore. I was on Mirena for almost 2 yrs before the symptoms got to be so bad I had it removed. I had been on bcp's before and had similar but not nearly as bad results so I swore off taking birth control. We do take precautions and I have never used plan b until recently when our precautions failed. I took it within 12 hours of sex &amp; the second pil as directed 12 hrs later. This week my period was due and I have not felt right. I took a hpt Tuesday and got a very faint +. I convinced myself it was all in my mind and waited until the next morning, and got another + but still pretty light. Well after the second I went to my doc and took another urine test, this one came out -. I waited 2 days and took another hpt, which gave definite + results. I am now waiting to go in to my doctor next week for a blood test to find out if I am pregnant.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 8/5/11               3 found this helpful     well im here asking the same question.. just hope this works out for the best...good luck                 Jewlzessence    Answered 3/27/09               3 found this helpful     If you took plan b within 24 hours after unprotected sex, it is very unlikely you could be pregnant. Plan B is extremely effective to prevent pregnancy, especially when taken that early. I would stop worrying...and expect your next period may not come exactly on time as plan B can cause your cycle to be irregular. Good luck!                 Jupol711    Answered 1/15/11               2 found this helpful     Me and my partner had sexual intercourse, but my partner had a condom on. Condom broke and he immediately pulled out but their was precum... he bought Plan B and I took it an hour later can I still get pregnant?           a BabyCenter member   Answered 7/6/17              Was this helpful?     Okay so me and my husband had sex 11/18. I took the Plan B pill 10 hours after we had sex. (we don't want a child right now). Should have used a condom but we didn't. Just wondering if I can still get pregnant after I took the bill after 10 hours?? Or should I not worry about it? Also we had sex after me coming off my period like a day before.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 11/29/17              Was this helpful?     y’all i took plan b within 24 hours after sex and here i am 5 months pregnant. If you’re ovulating when you take it you’re most likely gonna get pregnant because plan b basically just delays ovulation, which won’t happen if you’re already ovulating. but hey i hear married couples on here complaining, count your graces. I’m 19, single and pregnant. It’s the scariest thing to go through but i know it’ll be the best thing that’s ever happened to me when i’m holding my child.           a BabyCenter member   Answered 1/15/18              Was this helpful?              Reason for reporting   Offensive or inappropriate materials  Spamming or advertising  Vulgarity or profanity  Personal attack  Invasion of privacy  Copyright infringement       Cancel    Submit       Thank you for your feedback.           Answer this question    Log in or sign up  to add your answer        Log in to answer           Search Mom Answers            Can't find what you need?  Ask a question     Recent questions in Getting Pregnant     Today is Day 14 after day 3 embryo transfer for Wife and suddenly the symptoms stopped     0  Asked
6 hours ago         Conceiving a boy     0  Asked
9 hours ago         Why i am no more happy being pregnant?     2  Asked
9 hours ago         How long does it take to get pregnant after stopping depo shot?     0  Asked
9 hours ago       See all in Getting Pregnant              advertisement       Featured video     My six-word conception story   See all pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos       advertisement                                You might also like                  Trying to conceive? Five changes to make to your diet now   Find out why it's important to pay attention to your diet now                Sex for Getting Pregnant   Timing sex for conception, the best positions for baby-making, an in-depth explanation of how babies are made, and more about p...                Sex positions for baby-making   Find out if having sex in certain positions or lying down after sex can improve your chances of conceiving.                    Dads-to-be: Diet changes to boost your fertility   A healthy diet isn't just for future moms, dads-to-be need to watch what they're eating, too.                I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                How to get pregnant fast   Use these five tips to boost your chances of getting pregnant quickly – and find out when it's time to get help for a pos...                    Ovulation chart: How to track your basal body temperature and cervical mucus   Get step-by-step instructions for charting your basal body temperature and cervical mucus to help you determine when you're fer...                Ovulation symptoms   Learn the signs and symptoms of ovulation so you can tell when you're fertile.                10 things to avoid when you're trying to get pregnant   Trying to conceive? Find out if things like sexual lubricants, caffeine, alcohol, fish, stress, and hot tubs belong on your pre...                    Choosing your baby's sex: What the scientists say   Choosing your baby's gender is just an old wives tale, say many of the experts. Others aren't so sure.                          Trying to conceive? Five changes to make to your diet now   Find out why it's important to pay attention to your diet now                Sex for Getting Pregnant   Timing sex for conception, the best positions for baby-making, an in-depth explanation of how babies are made, and more about p...                    Sex positions for baby-making   Find out if having sex in certain positions or lying down after sex can improve your chances of conceiving.                Dads-to-be: Diet changes to boost your fertility   A healthy diet isn't just for future moms, dads-to-be need to watch what they're eating, too.                    I've been trying to get pregnant – when do I need to see a fertility doctor?   When is not conceiving no big deal, and when is it cause for concern?                How to get pregnant fast   Use these five tips to boost your chances of getting pregnant quickly – and find out when it's time to get help for a pos...                    Ovulation chart: How to track your basal body temperature and cervical mucus   Get step-by-step instructions for charting your basal body temperature and cervical mucus to help you determine when you're fer...                Ovulation symptoms   Learn the signs and symptoms of ovulation so you can tell when you're fertile.                    10 things to avoid when you're trying to get pregnant   Trying to conceive? Find out if things like sexual lubricants, caffeine, alcohol, fish, stress, and hot tubs belong on your pre...                Choosing your baby's sex: What the scientists say   Choosing your baby's gender is just an old wives tale, say many of the experts. Others aren't so sure.                    Freebies & Coupons  Get coupons         advertisement        Connect with us        Sign up for our weekly emails that detail your baby's development                   Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app            Like us on Facebook     Follow us on Pinterest     Follow us on Instagram     Follow us on Twitter       BabyCenter Blog     BabyCenter Community     Love us?     Mom Answers   Getting Pregnant Answers  Pregnancy Answers            2016 Webby People's Voice Winner: Best Family/Parenting Site          See all our awards            Get Help   About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  Help Center  Press Center  Contact Us  Site Map     Membership & Newsletters   Newsletters  Register  Manage Email Subscriptions  Update Account   Legal   Privacy Policy  Terms of Use         Our U.S. Sites   BabyCenter  BabyCenter Community  BabyCenter en Español  Baby.com  Pregnancy.com  BabyCenter Blog  Mission Motherhood     Behind the Scenes   Advertise with us  Ad Specs  Jobs           About BabyCenter, L.L.C.  |  Help  |  Contact us  |  Advertise with us     All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2018 All rights reserved.  This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use . This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use .        New to BabyCenter? Join now   Log in to continue      Email address     Password    Forgot your password?      Keep me logged in     Log in                Already a member? Log in                                         Due date or child's birthday        Trying to conceive        Calculate my due date   Calculate my due date     First day of your last period     Select date           Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners                      Privacy Policy  |  Terms    Sign in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          News  Videos  Quizzes  Tasty  As/Is   More                                                                                    Health  16 Things No One Tells You About The Morning-After Pill   Take that, broken condom.   Posted on March 26, 2015, 15:01 GMT            Casey Gueren  BuzzFeed Staff             Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link                  Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         Jenny Chang / BuzzFeed       Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin          1.  Emergency contraception comes in a few different forms.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    You probably know it best as the morning-after pill (like Plan B One-Step, Next Choice, Ella, etc.) but your other options are the copper IUD or a high dose of regular birth control pills — but more on all these later.        2.  The morning-after pill is not the same as the abortion pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Emergency contraception delays ovulation (when an egg is released from your ovary and could maybe get fertilized by sperm) and may, in some cases, prevent a fertilized egg from implanting in your uterine lining. What it won’t do is end an existing pregnancy. The abortion pill, or Mifeprex, terminates an early pregnancy. “You couldn’t take enough levonorgestrel [Plan B One-Step] to cause an abortion,” James Trussell, Ph.D., senior research demographer of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, tells BuzzFeed Life. “It’s not physiologically capable of doing so.”           Advertisement       3.  You don't need to take it the morning after unprotected sex. You can take it that night or even a few days later.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    The labeling on Plan B One-Step and its generics say that you should take it within 72 hours of unprotected sex, and that it’s most effective the sooner you take it. That’s a solid suggestion, but more recent research found that it might be just as effective on days one through four. And it’s possible that it might still be effective on day five, depending on where you are in your cycle, Dr. Alyssa Dweck, certified OB-GYN, co-author of V Is for Vagina , tells BuzzFeed Life. Obviously you should never wait to take emergency contraception, says Trussell, but if you think you’re too late, call your doctor or a pharmacist to ask about your options. You might still have some time.        4.  The most effective form of emergency contraception isn’t a pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    It’s actually the copper IUD, which has the added bonus of offering pregnancy protection for up to 10 years. If inserted within five days of unprotected sex, it’s extremely effective at preventing pregnancy (in a review of 42 studies between 1979 and 2011, the pregnancy rate was just 0.1% when women used an IUD for emergency contraception ), says Trussell. Science still isn’t sure exactly how it works, but the really high effectiveness implies that it’s probably a combination of preventing fertilization and preventing a fertilized egg from implanting in the uterine wall. The hormonal IUD might work too, but that research is still being done, says Trussell. Of course, use this option only if you actually want the copper IUD (because now you’re stuck with it), and talk to your doctor to make sure you’re a good candidate.        5.  You might feel absolutely fine after you take the morning-after pill.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    The most common side effects are nausea and some spotting (less common effects are vomiting, fatigue, headache, breast soreness, dizziness, and cramps). But you might not feel any side effects at all. For most people, both pills are really well tolerated, says Dweck.         6.  But your period could be a little ridiculous afterward.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          memecrunch.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      It should still come within a week of its normally scheduled arrival, but it might be earlier or later than normal, says Dweck. If it’s more than a week late, take a pregnancy test.           Advertisement       7.  You can get emergency contraception without any prescription or ID.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Plan B One-Step and its generic forms (any emergency contraception with the main ingredient levonorgestrel) are now available over the counter for all ages. Whether they’re on the shelves or behind the cash register depends on the pharmacy (some stores lock them up to prevent shoplifting), but you no longer need to show an ID or prove you’re over 17 to buy this kind .         8.  There’s also a prescription-only pill option if you have more time/need more time.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          ec.princeton.edu        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      Another option, Ella, can prevent pregnancy when taken up to five days after sex, but you need a prescription to get it. This pill’s ingredient is ulipristal acetate, and it can delay ovulation with the same effectiveness on days one through five. There’s also research that this option works closer to the time that ovulation would occur, so it can buy you some extra time, says Trussell.        9.  And as a last resort, you could use SOME versions of regular old birth control pills.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Maybe you’re already on the pill but you missed like five of them this month. Depending on which pill you use, you might be able to just take them instead of buying Plan B, BUT this doesn’t work for all pills, says Dweck. Look at this chart to see if there are instructions for your prescription. If you go this route, make sure to call your doctor ASAP to let them know you’ll need a new prescription for next month. Also, you’re more likely to experience nausea and vomiting with this method, since the birth control pills contain estrogen (which you won’t find in regular morning-after pills).        10.  You can take it even if you’re on another form of birth control and you effed it up.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    Maybe you forgot a few birth control pills or didn’t replace your ring or patch on time. Or maybe the condom ripped in half like those cheap little water balloons. You can still take the morning-after pill, says Dweck.           Advertisement       11.  You can keep the pill version on hand like condoms.        View this photo on Instagram       instagram.com    You know how it never seems to rain when you actually remember to bring your umbrella? Well, maybe you won’t ever need Plan B if you have it tucked in your nightstand. If you do need it, you’ll be really glad you don’t have to trek to the drugstore or doctor’s office to get it — especially since timing is so important. And definitely consider packing it if you’ll be traveling and might not be able to get to a doctor. Just pay attention to expiration dates on the package insert to make sure it’s still effective.         12.  You might be able to get your insurance to pay for it.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          someecards.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      If your insurance covers birth control prescriptions without a co-pay, it should cover the full cost of any FDA-approved method — including emergency contraception. That said, you’ll probably have to get a prescription for your company to cover it, so this is only helpful if you know you can see your doctor ASAP. If you think you might EVER need the morning-after pill, call your insurance company now to find out their policy, so you’re not stuck on hold for an hour when you actually need it. If it'll be covered (even at a reduced cost), it might be worth getting and filling the prescription now, just so you have it in case of an emergency.         13.  Your weight probably doesn’t have anything to do with its effectiveness.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         Jupiterimages / Getty Images / Via thinkstockphotos.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      There were rumors going around that the morning-after pills were less effective in women over 165 pounds and basically useless in women over 176 pounds. This was based on new labeling information on Norlevo, the European version of Plan B One-Step, which happened in late 2013. But in 2014, the European Medicines Agency conducted a review and determined that there wasn’t enough evidence to suggest that this was true, and Norlevo got rid of the extra warning label.         14.  Taking the morning-after pill won’t protect you from more unprotected sex.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          humoar.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      So you slipped up once and took the morning after pill immediately. Can you...hypothetically…have more sex and still be protected? So far no studies have looked at this, so Trussell suggests not tempting fate. Is it possible that it could still protect you if have unprotected sex again 10 minutes after taking it? Maybe. But there’s really no research right now to back that up. Instead of speculating, just settle on a reliable method of birth control instead. Also, condoms, because emergency contraception does NOT protect against STIs.         15.  You can take it again and again and again, but you shouldn't use it in place of regular birth control.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link         NBC / Via plumkat.tumblr.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      You can even take it twice in one month if you need to, says Dweck. There’s no research to show that it has any long-term effects on your health or fertility. “Repeat use is not a safety issue at all,” says Trussell. That said, it’s definitely not as effective as having a reliable, continuous method of birth control (like the pill, ring, patch, implant, IUD, shot, condoms, etc.). Plus, it’s way more expensive when you’re talking about cost per sex. And again, it does NOT protect against any STIs — condoms are the only way to limit your exposure to those.         16.  They’re not totally effective, so you might still get pregnant.              Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On email    Email        Share On copy    Copy Link          reddit.com        Share On facebook    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin      No form of emergency contraception is 100% effective (though the copper IUD comes close). So if your period is more than a week late, you might be pregnant . It’s hard to say exactly how effective each method actually is, especially since placebo-controlled studies would be super unethical here. But here’s what we do know about the effectiveness of each: Copper IUD: When inserted within five days of unprotected sex, it can reduce your risk of getting pregnant by 99%, according to research . Plan B One-Step/levonorgestrel: According to Plan B One-Step’s prescribing information , 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not get pregnant if they take this method correctly. And studies on levonorgestrel emergency contraception found effectiveness rates anywhere from 52% to 100%, according to an academic review of the research by Trussell and his colleagues. Ella/ulipristal acetate: Studies have shown effectiveness rates anywhere from 62% to 85%, according to Trussell . And in studies comparing it to levonorgestrel , it was found to be more effective: When taken within 24 hours of unprotected sex, the chances of getting pregnant were 65% lower than if they took levonorgestrel, and the risk was 42% lower when taken within 72 hours. Combined oral contraceptives (as long as they’re on this list ): Using certain kinds of regular birth control pills as emergency contraception can reduce your chances of getting pregnant by about 75%, according to Trussell .         Mar. 26, 2015, at 22:26 PM     Mifeprex is the medication used to nonsurgically terminate an early pregnancy. An earlier version of this article only referred to mifepristone (the ingredient in Mifeprex) which is often used in conjunction with misoprostol.                Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link        INTRODUCING           For beauty & style as you are.    a     brand       For beauty & style as you are.    See more from As/Is   See more from As/Is                                                       Promoted by           Want to be the first to see product recommendations, style hacks, and beauty trends? Sign up for our As/Is newsletter!       Sign up          Great!  You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!           View Comments                                  Promoted         Promoted by                                 Want to be the first to see product recommendations, style hacks, and beauty trends? Sign up for our As/Is newsletter!       Sign up          Great!  You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!         Advertisement      Connect With            Health      Like Us On Facebook      Follow Us On Twitter           Advertisement                                 Promoted         Promoted by                                            BuzzFeed Home Sitemap © 2018 BuzzFeed, Inc.                Share On facebook    Share        Share On vk    Share        Share On pinterest      Share On pinterest    Pin        Share On lineapp          Share On twitter    Share        Share On email    Email        Share On sms          Share On whatsapp          Share On more    More        Share On tumblr          Share On link          Share On copy    Copy Link                     Text Only    Full media Version         Get EC 
          NOW | INFO about EC | Q&A about EC | About 
          Us | For Providers | Home   Get 
          EC NOW   INFO about EC   Q&A about EC  About Us   For Providers   Home       Find a Morning After Pill Provider Near You     The Emergency Contraception Website - Your website for the "Morning After"     Answers to Frequently Asked Questions About...   Effectiveness  How effective is emergency contraception?  Emergency contraception 
             (also known as " morning 
            after pills " or "day after pills") makes it much less likely that you will get pregnant if taken within 
            the first few days after you have sex. How much it reduces your 
            chances of getting pregnant depends on which kind of emergency 
            contraceptive you use and how quickly you take it after unprotected intercourse. In general, progestin-only emergency contraceptive pills, like Plan B One-Step , Next Choice One Dose , Take Action  and Levonorgestrel Tablets , are more effective than combined emergency contraceptive pills. And pills containing an antiprogestin, like ella , are more effective than  progestin-only pills.  Labeling for Plan B  One-Step, Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice  and Levonorgestrel Tablets states that the treatment prevents 7 of 8 pregnancies that otherwise  would have occurred; that means it reduces your risk of pregnancy by 88%* . And if you  take these progestin-only  emergency contraceptive pills within the first 24 hours after sex, they  reduce your risk of pregnancy by up to 95%.    The risk of  pregnancy after taking ella within 24 hours after sex is about 65% lower than  the risk after taking progestin-only pills such as Plan B  One-Step,  Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice  or Levonorgestrel Tablets ; if taken within 72 hours  after sex, the risk is 42% lower. In clinical studies, ella stayed effective for 5 days after unprotected sex; but what matters for each individual woman is where she is in her own cycle (if a woman is about to ovulate, she may risk pregnancy if she waits 5 days to take EC). Although ella works closer to the time of ovulation than progestin-only EC (such as Plan B One-Step ), emergency contraceptive pills - including ella - do not appear to work if you are too close to ovulation, or have already ovulated. You may not know exactly how close you are to ovulating; so take EC as soon as possible after unprotected sex, no matter which pill you use.    Emergency contraceptive pills containing both progestin 
            and estrogen (known as “combined” pills) reduce the 
            risk of pregnancy by 75%. In other words, if 100 women use this type 
            of pill after having unprotected sex, only 2 of them will get pregnant. 
            Emergency insertion of a copper-T IUD reduces the risk of pregnancy 
            by more than 99%.    While all of these types of emergency 
            contraceptives are safe and effective, with the exception of the IUD (if used for ongoing contraception), they are not as good at preventing pregnancy as birth 
            control that’s used before or during sex, like the pill 
            or condom. If emergency contraception was the only type of birth control 
            you used for an entire year, your annual risk of getting pregnant 
            would probably be about 20% with progestin-only EC such as Plan B  One-Step,  Next Choice One Dose, Next Choice ,  Levonorgestrel Tablets and other progestin-only emergency contraceptive pills and 40% with “combined” emergency contraceptive 
            pills. And that’s assuming you used emergency contraceptive 
            pills perfectly, after each and every time you had unprotected sex. 
            For this reason, health care providers generally recommend that, if 
            you are sexually active, you should try to find a regular method of 
            contraception other than emergency contraception that can work for 
            you. (Find out more about your options here or use this free, interactive online tool or ARHP's Method Match to help choose the best contraceptive method for you.)   * The exact effectiveness of emergency contraceptive pills is difficult to measure and some researchers believe the effectiveness may be lower than that reported on package labels. To find out more about studies evaluating the effectiveness of emergency 
            contraception, read our thorough and up-to-date academic 
            review  of the medical and social science literature here.  ----------   Back to QUESTIONS     Español |  Arabic    My Story           Print this page      This website is operated by the Office 
        of Population Research at Princeton 
        University and by the Association 
        of Reproductive Health Professionals and has no connection with any 
        pharmaceutical company or for-profit organization.      About Us .  EC 
        in the News .  For Providers 
        .  Links .  Site 
        Map .  Privacy            I Need to Get Emergency Contraception NOW  Where can I get Emergency Contraception 
          ("the morning after pill") in the US?  What 
			    brands of birth control pills can be used for EC (in any country)?   Information About Emergency Contraception  The Basics of Emergency Contraception  Emergency Contraceptive Pills 
          ("morning after pills")  The Copper Intrauterine Device ("IUD 
          or Copper T")   Q&A about Emergency Contraception  Well-known Morning After Pill brands  Plan B One-Step . Next Choice One Dose . Postinor . ella      What is Emergency Contraception?  How does emergency contraception work?   Is the Day After Pill 
          the same as the Morning After Pill?   How long do 
          I have to take a "day after pill"?  Can I take it the day before?    What are the side 
          effects of the Morning After Pill?  What are the side effects 
          of progestin-only ECPs?  What are the side effects 
          of combined ECPs?   The difference between the Morning After Pill and the Abortion 
          Pill  How the morning after pill works  How the Abortion Pill works (also 
          known as RU-486 or Mifeprex)        © 2017 Office of Population Research & Association of Reproductive Health Professionals  website design by DDA         Dr. Jen Gunter   Wielding the lasso of truth      Search     Search for:   Go        Home  Subscribe       About me  Disclaimer  Social Media  What  Why    Subscribe to RSS     you're reading...    abortion , Contraception , evidence based medicine , war on women  How does Plan B really work? Don’t ask the Supreme Court, ask an OB/GYN   Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter  ⋅  July 4, 2014  ⋅  58 Comments    Filed Under  abortion. morning after pill    Never has a medication been more misunderstood than poor Plan B (levonorgestrel or LNG), a post coital contraceptive (a.k.a. morning-after pill).  It’s not just Justices Alito, Thomas, Roberts, Scalia, Kennedy and Dr. Hobby Lobby who fail to grasp the mechanism of action, but many other people are confused including journalists (the NY Times has an error in the mechanisms of action in a recent article ) and even some doctors. The misinformation about LNG post coital contraception has essentially become urban medical myth, sometimes perpetuated with good intentions (reporters trying to strive for due diligence or health care professionals trying to teach students or explain to patients) and sometimes with bad intentions (Justice Alito et al and the American Association of Pro-Life OB/GYNs I’m looking at you).  Fortunately there are excellent studies that tell us exactly how Plan B works so let’s get to it:  Plan B is levonorgestrel, a progestin (a synthetic version of the hormone progesterone). The hormone progesterone is released by the sac that stays behind after ovulation (called the corpus luteum). The job of progesterone is to get the uterus primed to accept a fertilized egg and if implantation happens it maintains the pregnancy until the placenta can produce its own progesterone. This hormone is pro-gest ational, hence the choice of the name pro-gest erone. This is a bit of a spoiler alert because a synthetic version of a pro-gestational hormone is unlikely to do the exact opposite.  How does plan B work? It has one and only one mechanism of action, it inhibits ovulation.  A variety of hormonal changes happen as the ovary readies an egg (a.k.a follicle) for ovulation. Ovulation, the actual release of the egg, is triggered by a massive surge of a hormone called luteinizing hormone (LH). After ovulation the egg has a 24 hour window to be fertilized (it has a pretty short shelf life). Plan B when given 2 to 3 days BEFORE the LH surge can inhibit,delay, or blunt the LH surge and prevent ovulation . Outside of that 48 hours window Plan B is very ineffective.   The dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is not enough to affect cervical mucous and since it is given AFTER sex that’s a moot point. By the time you have taken Plan B the sperm has already passed the cervix and within minutes it’s in the fallopian tube. Waiting.  The single dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is not enough to damage sperm. this has also been well-studied.  (FYI sperm can live for 5-6 days in the upper reproductive tract), so we can cross damaging sperm off the how-does-Plan-B-work list.  The single dose of levonorgestrel in Plan B is also not enough to do  anything to uterine lining and animal studies tell us that embryos exposed to the Plan B dose of LNG develop just fine and there is no impact on implantation. So even if you use the Justice Alito/Dr. Hobby Lobby version of abortion (i.e. affecting a fertilized egg) there is no possible impact. At all. This is what we call scientific fact, it is not open to interpretation.  Hold on you say. It only works before ovulation? Why would I take it then if I weren’t about to ovulate? Well…   Ovulation can be unpredictable. many women have irregular cycles and even those with cycles like clock work can pop an egg out early every now and then  Sperm lives for 5-6 days, so even of you have sex on day 7 or 8 of your cycle (i.e. days when you are not normally fertile) the sperm might actually be there when you are fertile 4-6 days later.  Plan B has no contraindications and very few, if any, side effects   Basically the permutations and combinations of when you are actually fertile are almost impossible to work out (especially at 2 a.m. when the condom broke), so it is really just better to use it if you have unprotected intercourse regardless of the day of the month. That is how it was studied. However, ella (ulipristal) is more effective as a post coital contraceptive and a Copper IUD is the most effective, although both require a prescription and are significantly more expensive than generic Plan B. If you absolutely do not want to get pregnant ella or a post-coital copper IUD are better choices, but just less practical.  Just as we know that condoms work by mechanically preventing sperm from getting into the uterus, we know that Plan B works by inhibiting ovulation. To say otherwise isn’t a belief, it’s a lie.        Note: someone asked why does Plan B labeling indicate that it might affect implantation when I say that it does not? I felt my reply important enough to add that to the body of the post in case someone else has the same question.  Package inserts are notorious for being a “cover you legal ass and assets” rather than a reflection of state of the art science. This is because they are legal documents not medical ones, the FDA has very specific requirements as to what can and can not be put into a package insert based in the studies presented to the FDA at the time of application, and they are often outdated due to the science that has been produced since the original application.  The Plan B package insert was approved in 2006 and since that time there have been at least three studies evaluating endometrial receptivity that disprove an implantation disruption hypothesis (Palomino in 2010 Fertility Sterility, Meng 2010 Human Reproduction and Vargas 2012 Journal of Molecular Endocrinology). There was a 2001 study that indicated no impact on endometrial receptivity (Durand Contraception), however whether that one study was considered sufficient at the time of FDA submission or was even submitted I don’t know.  Our understanding of how mechanisms of action of medications evolves as new technology develops. in addition, once products become available many researchers become interested in further study. The company who makes the product is typically not invested in this specific kind of post market research as it brings them nothing financially. To get a package insert changed on new data requires a significant amount of paper work with the FDA and is very expensive. Once a product is generic (such as Plan B) there is zero motivation to make the correction.  Relying on a package insert which contains by nature a myriad of biases from 2006 and thus based on data from pre-2005 to be scientifically accurate in 2014 (especially given the robust studies published in peer reviewed journals since) is ludicrous.  In addition, the 2008 FIGO statement on LNG post coital contraception says a “review of the evidence suggests that LNG ECPs cannot prevent implantation of a fertilized egg. Language on implantation should not be included in LNG ECP product labeling.”  Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Reddit Email More LinkedIn Print Like this: Like  Loading...   Related      « An OB/GYN’s opinion on the Supreme Court, Hobby Lobby, and contraception  An OB/GYN reviews Obvious Child, the movie »      Discussion   58 thoughts on “ How does Plan B really work? Don’t ask the Supreme Court, ask an OB/GYN ”      Thank you for this post!    Posted by Victo Dolore | July 4, 2014, 10:29 am     Reply to this comment       So what happens if a woman takes plan B immediately after she has ovulated (and had unprotected sex, of course, assuming there is sperm lurking around in the uterus?)    Posted by RP | September 9, 2015, 9:11 pm     Reply to this comment       This is what I would like to know too.  How does Plan B work at all if ovulation has taken place since intercourse happened?    Posted by Jonathan | January 14, 2016, 3:23 pm          It doesn’t work after ovulation.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | January 14, 2016, 3:56 pm          If Plan B is taken after implantation has occurred, doesn’t the huge dose of progesterone create a risk that the baby will develop abnormally?    Posted by Jonathan Brumley | April 14, 2016, 8:18 am          No, not at all. Been well studied. In IVF they give progesterone to support an early pregnancy all the time.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | April 14, 2016, 9:28 am          well. it work on me, i had sex on my ovulation day and then after 30-45 mins i took the pill and now on my 29th day cycle i am having my 1st day of mens…    Posted by meganfox | August 7, 2016, 4:08 pm          must back it up by some other method,talk about immediate insertion of IUD.    Posted by Brian | January 5, 2018, 1:51 pm              There you go again!  Using Science and Facts!    Posted by rekster | July 4, 2014, 11:34 am     Reply to this comment       That you for putting the information out there. Leslie    Posted by swo8 | July 4, 2014, 12:31 pm     Reply to this comment       The root of the dispute is, among other points is the following quote from the Plan B package insert which you no doubt dispute.  –  “Plan B  One-Step is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization (by altering tubal transport of sperm and/or ova). In addition, it may inhibit implantation (by altering the endometrium).” This suggests a possible post-fertilization effect which is the root of HL’s objection.  Likewise, does your post support the HL contention that IUDs may have a post fertilization effect (by your point that IUDs are more effective EC) in that the post-coital placement of an IUD would not seem to effect sperm that is surely in the upper reproductive tract but (seemingly) create a uterine environment against implantation?    Posted by Daniel Kane | July 4, 2014, 1:58 pm     Reply to this comment       Package inserts are notorious for being a “cover you legal ass and assets” rather than a reflection of state of the art science. This is because they are legal documents not medical ones, the FDA has very specific requirements as to what can and can not be put into a package insert based in the studies presented to the FDA at the time of application, and they are often outdated due to the science that has been produced since the original application.  The Plan B package insert was approved in 2006 and since that time there have been at least three studies evaluating endometrial receptivity that disprove an implantation disruption hypothesis (Palomino in 2010 Fertility Sterility , Meng 2010 Human Reproduction and Vargas 2012 Journal of Molecular Endocrinology ). There was a 2001 study that indicated no impact on endometrial receptivity (Durand Contraception ), however whether that one study was considered sufficient at the time of FDA submission or was even submitted I don’t know.  Our understanding of how mechanisms of action of medications evolves as new technology develops. in addition, once products become available many researchers become interested in further study. The company who makes the product is typically not invested in this specific kind of post market research as it brings them nothing financially. To get a package insert changed on new data requires a significant amount of paper work with the FDA and is very expensive. Once a product is generic (such as Plan B) there is zero motivation to make the correction.  Relying on a package insert which contains by nature a myriad of biases from 2006 and thus based on data from pre-2005 to be scientifically accurate in 2014 (especially given the robust studies published in peer reviewed journals since) is ludicrous.  This post is about Plan B, not the IUD. I have a post that I wrote for the New Republic that contains info on the IUD, check their website out on Monday.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 4, 2014, 2:40 pm     Reply to this comment       Thank you — it’s nice to see the truth.    Posted by Melissa Barthold | July 8, 2014, 9:18 am              Thank you for your sensible TRUE post! I’m sick of the opinions of those who know nothing yet think their opinion is scientific fact.    Posted by Erin Bliss | July 4, 2014, 8:08 pm     Reply to this comment       While I agree with everything in this article the entire scope misses the point!  The federal government has no authority to tell a privately owned or any company what kind of insurance to offer including no insurance which will be the results of most of this mess I also as an individual can choose to work for that company or choose one that offers what I want.  Individual responsibility is exactly that, individual responsibility   Even long before all of this existed and as a poor starving student I could choose to buy condoms or a nicer dinner date.  Making the wrong choice on my end could have had dire life changing results but I did know the federal government was not reonsible for me or my results in life Stop the insanity    Posted by RedraiderRio | July 5, 2014, 9:19 am     Reply to this comment       So, I guess you are against the Federal government regulating business in any way?  You are against any employment regulations?  You are ok with having no workplace safety regulations?  You are ok with no working condition regulations?  You are ok with no privacy regulations that businesses are required to follow?  Or are you just against anything the Federal government requires?  Just trying to figure that out.    Posted by rekster | July 5, 2014, 11:54 am     Reply to this comment       When health care is politicized as it is now, few are happy. There is a legitimate discussion to be had – should the government specify what is in health insurance? Should the employer? Should the employer just shut up and pay?  The next regime in D.C. may not be so inclined to provide contraceptives in favor of something else (to please another party – because in case anyone has missed it – including me; this is not about science, it is about control). So, today if it seems like one’s boss and one’s government is in the bed room and exam room you could be correct. It is only the case because the citizenry via Congress invited them in.  At the moment, everyone is simply vetting the level of intrusion and level of interference for the employer and the feds. This will go on for about 10 years.  If one depends on the feds for goods and services, one can expect them to seek their own science for their own reasons. Dr. G pretty fairly laid out Plan B’s actions and answered a pertinent objection on the package insert. But the Court does not need Dr. G or her science. A million Ob-Gyns may properly agree with her but if five judges do not, that is the market we desired and created when we federalized the insurance business. Consumers of health care – and we are all consumers – become recipients with no opinion or option.    Posted by Daniel Kane | July 5, 2014, 6:07 pm              Dr. Hobby Lobby! I’m going to start using that one. Many of my patients (I’m a midwife working as a women’s health NP), unfortunately, either don’t know much about emergency contraception, or believe that it causes an abortion, due to all the awful non-scientific stuff that’s out there. Thanks for the post!    Posted by michelleefarber | July 5, 2014, 10:10 am     Reply to this comment       An article titled “The Science Behind the Birth Control in the Hobby Lobby Case” was written in which the author Jen Gunter stated that Plan B does not stop implantation of a fertilized egg. She stated regarding stopping implantation of a fertilized egg. “Plan B, which is one form of the morning-after pill, clearly wouldn’t. It works by inhibiting ovulation when given during a specific 48 hour window of the cycle. It has no other method of action. This is undisputed scientific fact. (Plan B is one of the best studied of all the methods of contraception).”  She said this is an undisputed scientific fact??? When this is a completely false statement. Plan B’s official website states that it DOES prevent implantation. Here is an excerpt from the official website.  “How does Plan B One-Step® work?  Plan B One-Step® is one tablet with levonorgestrel, a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades. Plan B One-Step® contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills, but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy. It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary. It is possible that Plan B One-Step® may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg (the uniting of sperm with the egg) or by preventing attachment (implantation) to the uterus (womb).”  This is from the Plan B One-Step Website. http://www.planbonestep.com/faqs.aspx  This needs to be reprinted and fixed. This is an attack on religious conservatives and makes Hobby Lobby and all those who have religious concerns about birth control look to be liars. I normally never would get involved but when I see a blatant LIE written on an article from a doctor who is claiming something that is not true… it needs to be fixed. I will be pursuing this with a passion until it is.    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 10:36 am     Reply to this comment       So you didn’t read the article or didn’t understand it? If you did you would have seen the paragraphs at the end that explain the package insert is incorrect and why FIGO recommends changing the package.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 11:13 am     Reply to this comment       I read the article and I still disagree with you and so do many other modern gynecologists. It is still possible to take the plan B after ovulation or the day of and therefore fertilization would have already occurred.  How do you explain why OBGYN have patients who come into their office who have severe bleeding after taking Plan B and they do a test of hormone levels that show that there was pregnancy hormones present in the test and the Plan B caused an early abortion. Stated from an OBGYN! The office stated that this is something that happens with Plan B. So other doctors have stated the opposite of what you are so boldly and confidently. This is a common situation for many women. That is a scientific fact!    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 11:47 am          There are no studies supporting your assertion of Plan B resulting in “a test of hormone levels that show there was pregnancy hormones present.” Please find a peer reviewed study that supports that claim otherwise go elsewhere with your venom. Also, the irregular bleeding than can happen after Plan B is due to the effect of levonorgestrel on ovulation.  As Plan B is not 100% effective some women will get pregnant (about 5% a month with no birth control and 2% with Plan B). As there is normally a high degree of early pregnancy loss naturally (i.e. miscarriage) some of the Plan B failures will miscarry. That’s not a Plan B effect.  Your claims are hearsay and your conclusions are based in a poor understanding of reproductive biology and the scientific method.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 12:33 pm          Also, you can say whatever you want about FIGO recommending to change the package in 2008 but the scientific fact is they have NOT changed the package. To this day in July 8th, 2014, the statement that it may prevent implantation is still on the plan B packaging and website. It’s there for a reason!!! If what you state was true, it would be changed but it’s NOT!    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 12:03 pm          Again, clearly you did not understand or read the post. No manufacturer ever invests $ in changing the package insert after a product goes generic.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 8, 2014, 12:35 pm          Not hearsay but personal experience. Not venom just truth.    Posted by Georgia Grace | July 8, 2014, 1:36 pm          If your comments are based on your personal experience taking Plan B it still does not support your claim that the medication interferes with implantation. If a doctor told you that, they were wrong. If you had irregular bleeding or an early or late period after Plan B that is a well known side effect and does not imply a post fertilization impact. The package insert was not updated for all the reasons described above. Personal experience does not support the erroneous claims that Plan B is an abortifacient.    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | July 9, 2014, 10:04 am          What’s wrong with the other 16 birth control methods Hobby Lobby does approve of?    Posted by Mark Conte | July 9, 2014, 12:22 pm              ^The ruling allows companies to now refuse coverage of ANY type of contraception, so those 16 aren’t givens anymore. The wording of the ruling also apparently states companies don’t have to cover “counseling” on methods they do not approve. So, what? They’re just not going to cover pap smears if your GYN drops the “IUD” bomb during the visit? Unclear how that’s going to work under HIPAA. Also, the four methods that were originally in dispute are coincidentally the most effective and the most expensive. Some women can’t use hormonal methods at all, so the copper IUD is the best option ($1,000??? Pocket change, of course). Women unhappy with their method tend to use it sporadically, hence unintended pregnancies happen if women are “on” the pill. Unintended pregnancies tend to cause a woman to seek abortion, or have an unhealthy pregnancy. Also, I’ve seen IUDs used in lieu of oral contraceptives if a patient’s parent or partner is performing what we call reproductive coercion…throwing pills away, refusing to use condoms, trying to impregnate someone against their will, etc. Those women benefit from a discreet, reliable method like the IUD, because they may not be a position to simply “abstain” from sex without partner retaliation (and if anyone answers “She should just leave him!”, you know very little about patterns of intimate partner violence on a broad scale, even if you have your own experiences). So no, there’s nothing wrong with the “other 16”; they’re just a viable option for every woman.    Posted by LT | July 12, 2014, 7:36 am     Reply to this comment       *not a viable option.    Posted by LT | July 12, 2014, 7:37 am     Reply to this comment       The Supreme court has ruled.  Unless you want to change our system of government, Get over it.  You can buy any drug you want at the local Walmart.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 12, 2014, 8:13 am     Reply to this comment       The Supreme Court also reverses their rulings…Dred Scott being the most obvious example. Get a couple of non-corporate judges on SCOTUS and this ruling will be toast.    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 6:42 am          This is not quite Dred Scott.  In fact, it is the exact opposite for the fetus.  Now go run out and save a puppy because you love animals.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 8:53 am          I don’t know what saving puppies (in my case it would be kittens) has to do with what we’re talking about. My point was that the Supreme Court does reverse their rulings. I think this ruling is just as wrong as Dred Scott’s was…therefore, get some different, non-partisan (or, more, accurately, non-Catholic, since Alito and Scalia obviously let their religiosity overwhelm their legalese) judges on the bench, and it will probably be reversed.    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 10:35 am          You’ll drive 35 miles to save some kittens trapped in a locked car but will flush your own flesh and blood down the toilet with the disdain you have for a cockroach.  Get it now>  Religion has nothing to do with it.  The last time I went to church was when my friend got married 8 years ago.  It’s a human rights issue, like the slavery issue and the gassing of the Jews and for the current world, the bombing of innocent women and children in Palestine which the whole world is turning a blind eye to.  Going to a PETA Meeting tonight?    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 3:55 pm          Boy, those goalposts are just tumbling down the mountainside, aren’t they?  Obviously you have no answer to the fact that the Hobby Lobby ruling is just plain wrong and there’s a good chance a future Supreme Court will reverse it. I never mentioned abortion, so why are you dragging that in? Also, what the hell doesn PETA have to do with anything? Really, Mr. Conte, you’re just frothing at the mouth. As you so snidely told me, “Get over it.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 4:02 pm          It’s just plain wrong in your eyes.  However majority rules in this country.  Case closed.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 6:59 pm          Not necessarily. As I said, get one or two new justices, and who knows?  http://money.howstuffworks.com/10-overturned-supreme-court-cases.htm  Also, the Senate will hold a vote on legislation to reverse the decision.  http://www.politicususa.com/2014/07/14/senate-vote-bill-reverse-hobby-lobby-decision.html  So I wouldn’t be too sure of that.  Also, the “majority” doesn’t rule if the majority rule is unconstitutional. See “same-sex marriage bans overturned.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 7:10 pm          Let’s cut all the bs.  You want the insurance company to pay for the more expensive birth control.  The Supreme Court said you have to pay for your own.  That’s it.  If as you say this ruling can be reversed, so can other laws like Roe vs Wade.  Think about that.    Posted by Mark Conte | July 14, 2014, 8:34 pm          Well, obviously. But can you really imagine the one or two justices who would be needed to reverse this ruling…then turning around and reversing Roe v. Wade? Think about that, dude. Not hardly.  You didn’t even read the article, did you? Cost has nothing to do with it. The five Catholics wrote their opinion on the bullshit idea that a false belief trumps scientific fact.  Also, since my other comment is still in moderation, you said: “However majority rules in this country. Case closed.”  The “majority” doesn’t rule if the rule is unconstitutional. See “same-sex marriage bans overturned.”    Posted by redheadedfemme | July 14, 2014, 9:14 pm              I read and understood the explanation. I took the plan b about cycle day 18th and I had my period about a day or two later. I didn’t chart my cycles like I do now and I now know that I ovulate between cycle day 18 and 22 if ovulation isn’t delay by stress or whatever and I mentruate about about 14 to 15 days later which ranges my cycles 33,34,35 or 36 days long. So how come I menstruated about two weeks and a few days after my previous menstration when I took plan b? I had never gotten a period that earlier in my whole menstruating years, infact, that’s the only time I’ve ever! And now that I understand my menstrual cycles better, I have come to conclude that indeed plan b interferes with implatation as I may have taken it on the day or the day after I ovulated. If you have an explanation for that, it would be most appreciated. Thank you.    Posted by Mrs.Prongs | August 17, 2014, 8:15 am     Reply to this comment       Bleeding does not imply a normal menses. The hormones in plan b can indeed cause irregular bleeding    Posted by Dr. Jen Gunter | August 17, 2014, 9:30 am     Reply to this comment       Thank you so much for taking the time to answer by question. I thought about that too but I wasn’t sure as that particular period was just as long and as heavy as my regular periods of 7 days (first four are heavy and last day or two is/are spotting). Don’t know if that changes anything.    Posted by Mrs.Prongs | August 17, 2014, 10:51 am            This happened to me,I took plan b, I had my period about 5 days later (9 days earlier than normal) then the next month skipped a period completely, then the following month back on track…i Just thought I would share as it really freaked me out skipping my period…i went to like3 doctors all who said it could happen and still didn’t believe them to my period came back.    Posted by Sarah | August 28, 2014, 1:28 pm     Reply to this comment         If an ovulation test says you are having an LH surge and then you take the Plan B… will the Plan B stop the process of ovulation?    Posted by Megan | March 5, 2015, 1:50 pm     Reply to this comment       So if sperm can live 5 days and you take the pill on day two but the pill is only effective for 48 hours if you ovulate  5 days after sex isn’t there a chance you could still get pregnant, assuming the sperm were still viable?    Posted by Candace | March 18, 2016, 4:33 pm     Reply to this comment       Thanks for posting this. I’m having difficulty getting people to believe that Plan B does not prevent implantation. Do you have studies that I can site? Thanks    Posted by Alex | March 31, 2016, 7:55 pm     Reply to this comment       I had unprotected sex a day before ovulation, I took plan b about 36 hours later, so after ovulation. If fertilization took place, could the pregnancy be interrupted? What are the complications?    Posted by Concerned? | May 12, 2016, 5:42 pm     Reply to this comment       Thank you for this post I was crying almost a complete 24 hours thinking that I had killed my baby after I read articles stating that it could cause and abortion to a fertilized egg, I am a Christian so in my interpretation life begins at conception which is at fertilization. Not implantation. I panicked when I seen the blood which is a common side affect 10-26% but the two times I took plan b years apart I didn’t expierence that symptom but back then I wasn’t close to my ovulation point like I was this time arround either way I’m giving up b.c purist of condoms permanently after this ehen you are ovulating you get all the symptoms including nausea , cramps and lots of bloating. BUT I am beyond greatful for this detailed explanation because with all this conflicting information out there it can become very stressful    Posted by Crystal | June 5, 2016, 1:07 am     Reply to this comment       I have scoured the Internet and read countless articles on Plan B and I cannot find an answer to my question. What if you have sex and the condom breaks and you take a Plan B the very next day. You were not sure of your ovulation and you may not have ovulated yet. Maybe you ovulated a few days after you took the plan B pill. You end up pregnant. Could that affect the  baby or increase chances of miscarriage? Everything I find talks about how Plan B does not affect an existing pregnancy. But what if you weren’t pregnant when you took Plan B, but rather took it and got pregnant a few days later?  I am currently pregnant after having taken Plan B and  have been told by my midwife a miscarriage is imminent. She said it has nothing to do with it but I can’t shake the feeling it created an inhospitable environment where the baby couldn’t thrive.    Posted by jencocoa | August 3, 2016, 10:39 am     Reply to this comment       I tool a plan b pill on yesterday around 4:15 and around 4:30 have unprotective sex. How long do i need to wait before it take affect and do i need to wait a never one do i count thursay though saturday. Or friday though suday cause i think that said wait 3 days before having unprotective sex can u hel pme understand    Posted by Tyanesha S Singleton | October 28, 2016, 1:50 am     Reply to this comment       I believe your theory.. I had unprotected sex and took plan b to be safe knowing that I was possibly ovulating and turns out the plan b did not work and I’m now 3 months pregnant. I took plan b within 12 hours of unprotected sex (the next morning) and now pregnant and that was the only time I had unprotected sex … women need to know the information you provided because we are all misinformed by plan B  Thank you for sharing    Posted by Alyssa | November 1, 2017, 10:59 pm     Reply to this comment       For how long would Plan B delay your ovulation?  Days,  weeks?    Posted by Samantha Miranda | January 19, 2018, 10:32 am     Reply to this comment         Trackbacks/Pingbacks    Pingback: How Does Plan B Really Work? Don’t Ask The Supreme Court, Ask An | Edmund's Page - July 5, 2014     Pingback: The Hobby Lobby Decision | Unsolicited Feedback - July 16, 2014     Pingback: 9 ways personhood amendments are harmful | Dr. Jen Gunter - September 30, 2014     Pingback: Hobby Lobby and Gender Discrimination: Refocusing the Conversation | Birth Anarchy - October 13, 2014     Pingback: A gynecologist sums up 2014 | Dr. Jen Gunter - January 2, 2015     Pingback: Hobby Lobby and Gender Discrimination: Refocusing the Conversation • Birth Anarchy - December 20, 2015       Leave a Reply Cancel reply      Enter your comment here...      Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:                                    Email (required)  (Address never made public)     Name (required)     Website                 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )                 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )   w     Cancel  Connecting to %s       Notify me of new comments via email.              Recent Tweets  RT @ PenguinGalaxy : @ DrJenGunter Someone twitches their butt briefly within 5 miles of someone they find attractive? 1 hour ago   Are you saying you are a witch?
That would explain a lot. twitter.com/realDonaldTrum…  2 hours ago   @ jkirbs7 lol 2 hours ago   Blogroll   Anarchic Teapot  Kevin MD  Preemie Primer  Science-Based pharmacy  Skepchick    Facebook  PreemiePrimer        Dr. Jen Gunter                                                                                  Post to     Cancel                   Send to Email Address   Your Name   Your Email Address         Cancel  Post was not sent - check your email addresses!  Email check failed, please try again  Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.              %d bloggers like this:               ENGLISH  Français     WHY PLAN B ®  HOW IT WORKS  WHERE TO GET IT  WHAT TO EXPECT  FAQ             When did you have sex without a contraceptive or have a contraceptive accident?  Calculate      Select Day     Today  Yesterday  Two days ago  Three days ago  Four or more days ago             Select Hour     0 AM  1 AM  2 AM  3 AM  4 AM  5 AM  6 AM  7 AM  8 AM  9 AM  10 AM  11 AM  12 PM  1 PM  2 PM  3 PM  4 PM  5 PM  6 PM  7 PM  8 PM  9 PM  10 PM  11 PM           Submit      Please select a time earlier than the present.     You have hours remaining to take plan B ® .  Please take it as soon as possible because the sooner you take it, the better it works. plan B ® can help prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours, and preferably within 12 hours, after a contraceptive accident or unprotected sex.     It has been more than 72 hours since you had unprotected sex or a contraceptive accident.  Please contact a healthcare professional for advice.    Back        Condoms are not foolproof. And sometimes you need a plan B ® .     FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS   Misconceptions can lead to conception. More often than you might think, unplanned pregnancies happen because we don’t have all the facts. Or, if we do have the facts, we sometimes kid ourselves that they don’t apply to us. If you’ve had unprotected sex or a contraceptive accident, such as if a condom broke, you are at risk of an unwanted pregnancy— so don’t wait until it’s too late . It’s only human to put off decisions or tell ourselves that everything’s fine. But if you wait for your next period, you may have a much bigger decision to make.          I’VE HAD UNPROTECTED SEX. AM I LIKELY TO GET PREGNANT?       You can get pregnant at any time during your monthly cycle —from the start of one period to the beginning of the next. Although people talk about a “safe time of the month,” it’s hard to tell when this is, for many reasons.  Your most fertile time of the month is when you’re ovulating (producing an egg), but most women aren’t aware when this is happening. Also, it takes several days for an egg to make its way from the ovary down the Fallopian tube, and an egg can be fertilized at any point during this journey. Sperm can survive in a woman’s body for up to seven days , so even if you hadn’t ovulated when you had sex, the sperm could still fertilize the egg sometime afterwards.  Many women don’t have regular periods. The time between your periods can vary, depending on what’s happening in your life, whether you’re stressed, and whether or not you’re eating properly. This makes it even more difficult to calculate your “safe” time.  When accidents happen, such as a condom breaking, and you don’t want to get pregnant, emergency contraception is there as a plan B ® . It’s not something you should use regularly, and you should never think of it as an alternative to a long-term method of birth control.     IS PLAN B ® AN ABORTION PILL?      Absolutely not. It may be comforting to know that plan B ® does not work if you are already pregnant (a fertilized egg has attached to the wall of the uterus). So if you take plan B ® , you will not be terminating a pregnancy. If you already have a confirmed pregnancy, you should not use plan B ® because it will not be effective.     I FORGOT MY PILL. WHAT SHOULD I DO?      If you forgot to take one of your oral contraceptive pills for more than a 24-hour period, and you engaged in unprotected intercourse during the day of the missed pill or within five days prior to the missed pill, consider taking plan B ® to prevent an unwanted pregnancy.     HOW DO I RESTART MY BIRTH CONTROL PILLS?      If you've taken plan B ® because of missed birth control pills, ask your pharmacist or doctor about the best way for you to restart them. Remember to use another method of contraception, such as condoms, until your birth control is fully effective.      WILL PLAN B ® AFFECT MY PERIOD?       plan B ® has no long-term effect on your menstrual cycle. Most women will get their next period when expected, and their cycle will continue as normal. For some women, their period can come earlier or later than usual and be lighter or heavier. If your period is delayed more than a week, or if you have any other cause for concern, contact your healthcare professional. More than occasional use (more than once within a menstrual cycle or more than once a month) may impact your menstrual cycle. You may also experience a few days of spotting after taking plan B ® , which is normal.     WHAT WILL HAPPEN AT THE PHARMACY?      In a province or territory where plan B ® is kept over the counter, you will find it in one of the following sections: Birth Control, Contraceptives, Feminine Hygiene or Family Planning.   In provinces where plan B ® is kept behind the pharmacy counter (Quebec and Saskatchewan), the pharmacist may ask you a few simple questions before giving you, or prescribing you (in Quebec), plan B ® to ensure it’s right for you. These professionals have been trained to handle requests for emergency contraception sympathetically and confidentially. In some cases, your pharmacist may refer you to a doctor or clinic for emergency contraception instead.     HOW OFTEN CAN I TAKE PLAN B ® ?      plan B ® should only be used in emergencies and not on a regular basis. It can also be used more than once. However, if plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher.   Remember that it should never replace regular, long-term methods of contraception. The pregnancy rate of plan B ® is calculated for a single use. If plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher. Also, if plan B ® is taken more than once within a menstrual cycle or more than occasional once-a-month use, it may impact your period.     DO I NEED A PRESCRIPTION FOR PLAN B ® ?      plan B ® is available at pharmacies across Canada without a prescription from your doctor. plan B ® is available over the counter in Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Nunavut, the Northwest Territories, Ontario, Prince Edward Island and Yukon. It can be found in any of these sections of your pharmacy: Birth Control, Contraceptives, Feminine Hygiene or Family Planning . It is kept behind the counter in Saskatchewan and is available under prescription by your pharmacist in Quebec.     HOW DOES PLAN B ® WORK?      plan B ® is a levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive, available in a one-pill (1.5 mg) dose. It works by temporarily stopping the release of an egg from the ovary, preventing fertilization if ovulation has already occurred, or, if an egg has already been fertilized, preventing it from attaching to the wall of the uterus.     HOW LONG IS PLAN B ® EFFECTIVE?       The sooner you take plan B ® , the more effective it is. It can prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours and preferably within 12 hours of unprotected sex. If you take it within 24 hours of unprotected sex, it is 95% effective. If you take it between 48 and 72 hours of unprotected sex, the efficacy rate is 61%. Note that if plan B ® is used on more than one occasion, the cumulative pregnancy rate will be higher.     WHAT ARE SOME OF THE SIDE EFFECTS OF THE PLAN B ® MORNING-AFTER PILL?       Severe reactions to plan B ® are uncommon. Temporary side effects, however, may occur and usually pass within 24 hours. The most common side effects include nausea, abdominal pain, fatigue, headache, dizziness, breast tenderness, vomiting, diarrhea and irregular menstrual bleeding. Less common reactions are migraine or severe headache, lower abdominal pain, painful menstruation and vaginal discharge. If these symptoms continue for more than 48 hours or are severe, see a healthcare professional.   Be sure to contact a healthcare professional immediately if you experience any of the following serious side effects: itching and rash, cramping or severe pain in your stomach or belly prior to your next normal period, uterine hemorrhage, vaginal hemorrhage. If you vomit within two hours of taking plan B ® , you may need to take another dose.     WHERE CAN I FIND MORE INFORMATION?      If you have any questions, you can call the plan B ® medical information line toll-free at: 1‑888‑867‑7426 (Canadian residents only).        HOME  WHY PLAN B ®  HOW IT WORKS  WHERE TO GET IT  WHAT TO EXPECT  FAQ  CONTACT US  SITE MAP  LEGAL DISCLAIMER   plan B ® , the original morning-after pill, contains levonorgestrel. This product may not be right for you. Always read the label.         *Pharmacy Practice+ & Profession Santé 2015 Survey on OTC Counselling & Recommendations.   © 2016 Paladin Labs Inc. All Rights Reserved.                          Close               Are you a provider? Visit Bedsider Providers »  Welcome!  ( Sign in or Create your account ) Español      HEY THERE.   New to Bedsider? Sign up here »     Sign in using Facebook or Twitter.  Sign in with Facebook »  Sign in with Twitter »    Sign in using your Bedsider Insider account.   email or phone   password     Forgot your password?  Get it back »            SIGN ME UP   Already a member? Sign in here »      Sign up using Facebook or Twitter.  Sign up with Facebook »  Sign up with Twitter »    Create a Bedsider Insider account.    email   We promise, we'll never give out your address.  nickname     password     confirm password   zip code   We'll only use it to customize Bedsider  what's your method?  choose one (optional)  I'll Never Tell  IUD  Implant  The Shot  The Ring  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom  Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception  where did you hear about us?  choose one (optional)  Healthcare Provider  College  Social Media  Internet Search  Link from another website  TV commercial  A friend, acquaintance, or family member  Other            SUBSCRIPTIONS: LET'S GET IT ON       frisky fridays   Sign up for our weekly column on sex, life, love, kicking ass, and using better birth control.     text me     email me     no thanks       We only use this number to text your subscriptions.        provider perspectives   See what our medical experts have to say about birth control, health, sex, science, and more.     text me     email me     no thanks      sign me up         JUST A FEW MORE DETAILS    Tell us more to complete your Bedsider Insider profile.     email   We need this to verify your account. We promise, we'll never give out your address.  nickname     zip code   We'll only use it to customize Bedsider  what's your method?  choose one (optional)  I'll Never Tell  IUD  Implant  The Shot  The Ring  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom  Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception  Spermicide  Spermicide-free  Latex  Non-latex  Combination  Progestin-only  Levonorgestrel-based pills  ella  Yuzpe Regimen  Incision  Non-incision  Body Temp (BBT)  Standard Days (SDM)  TwoDay (TDM)  Lactational (LAM)  Cervical Mucus  Symptothermal  Hormonal  Non-hormonal  Non-hormonal IUD  where did you hear about us?  choose one (optional)  Healthcare Provider  College  Social Media  Internet Search  Link from another website  TV commercial  A friend, acquaintance, or family member  Other                    BEDSIDER     birth control methods     Explore Methods  find a method that's right for you! »   Compare Methods  view a side-by-side comparison »   If Birth Control Fails  learn more about your options »     Dive straight into the details   IUD (Intrauterine Device)  Implant (Nexplanon)  The Shot (Depo-Provera)  The Ring (NuvaRing)  The Patch  The Pill  Diaphragm  Condom    Internal Condom  Cervical Cap  Fertility Awareness  Sponge  Spermicide  Withdrawal  Sterilization  "Not right now"  Emergency Contraception       where to get it    reminders    features      All Features  News, views, info, and tips about health, sex, and birth control.      Fact or Fiction  setting the record straight when it comes to sex      Frisky Fridays  a weekly column on sex, life, love, and kicking ass     Explore by topic   Birth control  STIs  News  Relationships  Better Sex  Health  Real Stories  Guy's Guide    Culture  How To  Insurance  Side Effects  Communication  Myths  Public Policy  Provider Perspective        questions             PROVIDER PERSPECTIVES /      view all features »          share this                   5 myths about the emergency contraceptive pill, busted  When it comes to post-sex pregnancy prevention, don't believe the rumors.  by
Maria Isabel Rodriguez, MD   updated 2017-02-22     Emergency contraception pills (ECPs) are the subject of more rumors and misunderstandings than any celebrity I can name—despite the fact that the medical community has been studying them for over 50 years. Part of the confusion is due to outdated information included in package labeling, and part is due to political interference with science .  If the condom broke, you forgot a pill, or things went further than you planned, having a Plan B —pun intended—can make a big difference. So if you ever had, have, or might have sex, it’s important to separate the fact from the fiction where ECPs are concerned—starting with the realities behind these 5 common myths.  Myth 1: There’s only one ECP option—and it’s hard to get.  There are more than two dozen types of ECPs in the U.S. The most common is the levonorgestrel-only pill—the best known brand of it is Plan B One-Step and generic versions include Next Choice One Dose, My Way, and Take Action. Plan B One-Step and generic levonorgestrel-only ECPs are now available in pharmacies, in stores, and online without a prescription or age restrictions. Most clinics accept walk-in patients who need emergency contraception (EC) in a hurry.  A newer ECP called ella contains ulipristal acetate and requires a prescription regardless of age. You can consult with a doctor and get a prescription for ella online . Side effects are low with either method, but some women have nausea, abdominal cramps, or changes in their next period. BTW, it’s also good to know that a study found that levonorgestrel-based pills may be less effective for women who weigh more than 165 lbs—and ella may be less effective for women who weigh more than 195 lbs. ParaGard is the only EC option that we know is equally effective regardless of weight .  There’s also the Yuzpe method, where plain old birth control pills taken in higher amounts can be used as EC. This table shows the needed amounts for different types of pills. This method may be convenient, especially if birth control pills are already on hand, but it’s associated with more nausea and vomiting  and is less effective than other options.  Getting ECPs as quickly as possible after unprotected sex is important since their effectiveness decreases over time. The ideal is to take them immediately after sex, but they can help prevent a pregnancy when taken up to five days after. Bedsider has an EC search with locations providing EC if you’re not sure where to get it in your area. Better yet, order online and keep it in your medicine cabinet.  Myth 2: ECPs cause abortion.  Little-known fact: After sex, sperm hang around in the fallopian tubes for days waiting for an egg to appear. If an egg doesn’t show up, the sperm eventually give up. That’s why ECPs only work for up to 5 days after sex, and why it’s important to take them as soon as you can.  Some people confuse ECPs with medication abortion pills , but they are not the same thing. (At all.) Levonorgestrel, the progestin hormone in most ECPs, has no effect on an established pregnancy . All ECPs prevent pregnancy by delaying ovulation, so the egg and sperm never meet up. Studies show that ECPs are not effective if a woman has already ovulated.  Myth 3: I partied last night, so taking ECPs now is dangerous.  Alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs don’t change the effectiveness of ECPs. Partying may affect how likely you are to hook up , but there’s no reason for it to affect your decision to take EC the next day. In general, the benefits of taking ECPs far outweigh the risks—especially since not taking it can mean dealing with the risks that come with pregnancy . It makes sense if you think about it like this:   EC is a one-time dose of a higher level of a hormone your body makes naturally.  Pregnancy is a nine-month dose of those same hormones at even higher levels.   Myth 4: If I take ECPs today, I’m covered if we have unprotected sex again tomorrow.  ECPs are only good to protect against one act of unprotected sex .  They work by blocking ovulation, but only for a few days, so if you take them and have unprotected sex again afterwards, you’re significantly increasing your risk of a pregnancy.  If you have unprotected sex again within a few days of taking the pills, there will be more sperm waiting in the fallopian tubes when the egg is eventually released.  Myth 5: ECPs will mess up your fertility if you take them too many times.  There is zero evidence that taking ECPs multiple times affects future fertility. Probably the biggest risk of taking ECPs multiple times is an eventual unintended pregnancy. ECPs prevent about 7 out of 8 pregnancies that would otherwise occur, meaning they’re less effective than other types of birth control like the pill, patch, and ring.  ECPs are way less effective than the IUD or implant .  Also, depending on your health insurance, it may be expensive to take them repeatedly .  If you find you’re taking ECPs regularly, it’s probably more affordable—not to mention more effective—to talk to your health care provider about which non-emergency method of birth control could be right for you. But if you ever have an emergency situation, don’t believe the rumors—ECPs are a safe and effective second chance to prevent an accidental pregnancy.  Maria Isabel Rodriguez, MD, is an Obstetrician/Gynecologist and a clinical fellow in Family Planning at the University of California, San Francisco. She likes working with women of all ages and believes that reproductive health is critical to not just the health of women, but making healthy families and happy communities. She surfs badly, but likes it anyways. Dr. Rodriguez is a faculty member at UCSF. However, the views and opinions expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the Regents of the University of California, UCSF, UCSF Medical Center, or any entities or units thereof.     read more about:  emergency contraception , effectiveness , cost , birth control , myths , provider perspective      read our commenting policy »   A NOTE ABOUT COMMENTING /   We trust that sexy brain of yours to post with good intentions. And we promise to respect your perspective, thoughts, insight, advice, humor, cheeky anecdotes, and tips. We’ll even indulge a healthy rant or two. But we must ask that you cite your source if you want to challenge any scientific or technical information on Bedsider. And please note: We will not tolerate abusive comments, racism, personal attacks, or bullying. That’s why we take our time to read every comment before it is posted. (That’s also why there’s some lag time before your comment shows up.) We greatly appreciate your presence here and welcome your participation 24/7/365. Just remember to be respectful and you’ll be good to go.  Oh! One more thing: We do our best to answer questions in a timely manner, but we can’t guarantee an immediate reply. (And we don’t answer questions that are already answered in the article you’re commenting on.) If you ask a question and need a response right now , we partner with San Francisco Sex Information (SFSI) to give you free, accurate, confidential info on sex and reproductive health. Their phone number is 415-989-SFSI (7374) and here are their hours . And if you have an urgent medical question, please contact your doctor or a local health center . We’re here to help you stay informed, but only a medical professional can advise you on personal health concerns.       add new comment        follow Bedsider /   subscribe to Provider Perspectives »                 explore methods /      Emergency Contraception  EC provides the possibility of prevention after the fact.    learn more about emergency contraception »      related features /   Guys Guide  emergency contraception        Provider Perspective  The emergency contraceptive that keeps going... and going…       Article  The girl’s guide to getting emergency contraception       Article  How well does emergency contraception work?        most popular features /   Provider Perspective  Having a miscarriage: 3 things you should know       Provider Perspective  Depo SubQ: The do-it-yourself birth control shot       Article  Safe travels : Birth control when you’re abroad       Article  Getting birth control online           HAVE AN ACCOUNT?  Get in here! Your free, totally private Bedsider account lets you subscribe to our sexy/helpful articles, schedule birth control reminders, find health resources near you, and more. All it takes is an email address and password.     I'm new to Bedsider   I already have a Bedsider account     email     password     confirm password     zip      continue »     email     password      continue »       WHERE DO YOU WANT IT?  We can email you Provider Perspectives or send them by text message.      sms     email me       We only use this number to text your subscriptions.      sign me up                  birth control methods    explore methods    compare methods    questions      where to get it    health centers    delivered to your door    emergency contraception      reminders    birth control reminders    appointment reminders      features    articles    real stories    guy's guide    fact or fiction    frisky fridays      social                                      you   your account  your reminders     providers   join us     college   get involved  faq      us    about bedsider    contact us    terms of use    privacy policy    donate       We believe knowledge is power .
We believe babies are best when you're ready .
We believe in you .  Call Bedsider for free birth control info (888) 321-0383       x  DISCÚLPANOS  Solo tenemos este contenido en inglés.   está bien, lo leeré en inglés  prefiero visitar Bedsider en español »                                   Search        Search  Groups Most Popular Find a Group Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Birth Month First Year Families Health Stages Featured and Popular Contests Deals International United States Start a Group Community Guidelines More Most Popular Find a Group Getting Pregnant Pregnancy Birth Month First Year Families Health Stages Featured and Popular Contests Deals International United States Start a Group Community Guidelines Groups News Getting Pregnant Pregnancy First Year Toddler Family Baby Products Registry Home  >  Groups  >  Families  >  Young Moms  >  Plan b fail? Young Moms 8.23K posts  35.5K members Archived Discussion  This discussion is archived and locked for posting  See active discussions on Young Moms i Plan b fail? iratsavong wrote: Has anyone ever taken plan b and have it not work? I've taken it about two times in the past and my bf and I had unprotected sex after I took it and it was effective. But this time, I remember taking it April 12th after having an accident on April 11th. Then again, thinking if we had unprotected sex after, it would work like before. But then I found out I was pregnant a couple of weeks later. My midwife thinks it wasn't effective and now I'm confused about how far along I am. Somewhere in between 5 and 7 weeks now. Sort by:  Oldest  Newest  47 Posts m  mysteriousswolf It couldve been an mistake in the manufacturing of the pill. Or it coulve been that his sperm and your egg met before you could take the pill. I believe u can wait up to three days after an accident but you decrease the chance of it working. In those days you have a chance to become pregnant. i  iratsavong @mysteriousswolf  Yeah, I took the same plan b the last two times but this time the pharmacy didn't have the regular one so they gave me a different kind.. I'm wondering if maybe that had something to do with it. m  mysteriousswolf Ive personally took plan b once just as a safety net for unprotected sex. It was a scary moment for me because i was young and not willing to have that guys kid. I made a decision to always have protected sex whether it be condoms or birth control. My sister though had gotten pregnant while she was on birth control, the pills were messed up. Now shes on the patch which is more effective. So i believe it totally is possible for the company to mess up. Im now pregnant by choice with the love of my life. i  iratsavong @mysteriousswolf  That's crazy, these pills are supposed to be very effective lol. But yes, my bf and I are excited and happy about the pregnancy now although, it wasn't planned. h  hawkeygirl4 @iratsavong  The more you take plan b, the less effective it is the next time you take it. And the effectiveness just keeps declining the more often you take it... Also, I've never heard of it working when you take it prior to having unprotected sex. You have about 3 days after the incident, but I have never heard of anyone taking it before an incident... So I'm gunna bet that that's why it didn't work the last time. When you get your first ultrasound, they will be able to tell you exactly how far along you are. From there, you can calculate the conception date. i  iratsavong @hawkeygirl4  I took it AFTER the incident A  AngryWhopper @iratsavong  You sound pretty irresponsible. Perhaps next time you should probably try some more long term birth control and have protected sex. i  ilovedexter @iratsavong  You can't have unprotected sex after you take it. Why aren't you using birth control or condoms? s  soon2bmumo23 @iratsavong  My friend did. Her son is three in august now. A few girls I went to school with had the same thing happen. Plan b doesn't mean it's guaranteed. i  iratsavong @AngryWhopper  If taking a plan b and being on birth control pills is irresponsible, I'm sure you need to look that word up again. I did try to prevent this, but it happened anyway. Thanks. i  iratsavong @soon2bmumo23  Must be a miracle then :) m  mysteriousswolf I have a theory that no matter what it is, there is no such thing as 100% effectiveness. There is that 1% chance it doesnt work. A condom can break, birth control pills can have the days mixed up and the plan b has that chance to not work. Sex is something that should happen between two loving adults because that 1% chance... May led you to a life you never expected and may not have intended. Despite being only 20, I knew i was ready for this step in my life, my fiance and i talked about it even before we decided to be pregnant. Because yours was unexpected, you have life decisions to make for you guys as a couple and parents. Im thrilled that despite the plan b failing that you and your bf are happy about the baby. Despite the hormones and morning sickness being pregnant im finding is quite a miracle. Like i told my fiance, i feel like superhero... Only im hungry and tired all the time. m  mysteriousswolf @AngryWhopper  Um no offense but plan b is a pill to be used after unprotected sex to prevent pregnancy. While maybe the use of condoms and birth control might have helped prevent the pregnancy they arent 100% either. i  ilovedexter @iratsavong  You said you had unprotected sex. Why would you use plan B if you are on birth control? K  Kirso2859 Plan B is only 95% effective if taken within 24 hours. That's the reason it's called plan B, it's not as effective as other contraception methods. It's much less likely to be a mistake in manufacturing or because they gave you a different type of pill, it's just not the most reliable way to prevent pregnancy. " Then again, thinking if we had unprotected sex after, it would work like before." If you did have unprotected sex again after taking it, which it really did seem like you were saying, it would not have been effective in preventing pregnancy from that incident. Assuming you conceived around the 11th of April, you will be around 7 weeks pregnant, you'll get a more accurate estimation at your first ultrasound though.  a  ashmazing20 @mysteriousswolf  Exactly!!! G  GiaLea @iratsavong  It almost sounds like either 1. The pills were messed up on manufacturers side or 2. Kind of like with pain meds or antibiotics, you built up a tolerance. Just because you have used it a couple times before it is possible. But regardless, no birth control method is 100%... I got pregnant while using condoms. I would set up an ultrasound, explain what happened and wit an ultrasound they should be able to tell you exactly where you're at :) E  Escape034 @iratsavong  I dont think you said you were on birth control. Saying you had unprotected sex would mean the opposite... k  kileyxo @iratsavong  I was switching birth controls so I was off it for a month and had an "accident" on the 20th, took a Plan B on the 21st then had antother "accident" on the 22nd and I'm 95% sure my daughter was conceived the 22nd. the Plan B pill says it's effective for three days so I thought it would be fine... surprise lol Related Articles & Discussions American Academy of Pediatrics: First Dose of Hep B Vaccine Should Be Given to Baby Within 24 Hours of Birth  Here's why the American Academy of Pediatrics just updated its Hep B recommendations for baby. m PLAN B FAILED Created by mommyofanangle99  Last post 8 months ago 16 posts m plan b failed Created by mommyofanangle99  Last post 11 months ago 10 posts m Plan B failed? Created by mommaroo02  Last post 12 months ago 11 posts Help  Glossary  < All Group Archived Discussions   What To Expect  Community Trying To Conceive » Hot Topics » Baby Names » Why We Archive  What to Expect has thousands of open discussions happening each day. We work hard to share our most timely and active conversations with you.  Archived discussions are usually a bit older and not as active as other community content.  We keep them up because there are a ton of great conversations here and we believe you deserve to see them all.    Get the Latest Stories From What to Expect in Your Inbox! Sign Up Follow Us On            About Us Contact Us Advertise About Heidi Murkoff Accessibility AdChoices  What to Expect Foundation What to Expect Bookstore Privacy Policy Editorial Policy Terms of Use Help         What to Expect is a Ziff Davis company along with Computer Shopper • ExtremeTech • Geek • AskMen • IGN • Offers.com • SpeedTest.net • TechBargains • Toolbox • Everyday Health • MedPage Today • PCMag The material on this website is provided for educational purposes only and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment, or in place of therapy or medical care. Use of this site is subject to our terms of use and privacy policy. © 2018 What to ExpectThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Contraception and Birth Control  Pharmaceuticals  Medicine and Healthcare What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? Update Cancel ad by Techylive Great food made easy, that’s what it’s all about. Why can’t fast food be good food? We help you make the freshest and the crunchiest new bites. Learn More at healthy-food-recipes.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo Answer Wiki 1 Answer   Andeline Parsnipp Answered Jul 31, 2017 · Author has 85 answers and 24.5k answer views Here is an answer straight from www.webmd.com: If you take it within 72 hours after you've had unprotected sex, Plan B One-Step can reduce the risk of pregnancy by up to 89%. If you take Plan B One-Step within 24 hours, it is about 95% effective. 583 Views · Answer requested by  Khaiah Arrington Related Questions How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? How do I know if Plan B worked? How long does Plan B take to start working? What exactly does Plan B (or other after-sex pill) do? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? How effective are Plan B pills at contraception? What are common side effects of the Plan B pill? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? How can Plan B pills fail? Could she be pregnant even if she took the plan b pill? Why are the Plan B pills so effective? Is it worth getting a Plan B pill (emergency contraceptive) if my girlfriend is not ovulating? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? Does Plan B work if you have already ovulated? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? How do I know if Plan B worked? How long does Plan B take to start working? What exactly does Plan B (or other after-sex pill) do? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? How effective are Plan B pills at contraception? What are common side effects of the Plan B pill? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? How can Plan B pills fail? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Morning After Pill  Contraception and Birth Control  Getting Pregnant  Obstetrics and Gynecology  Pregnancy Could she be pregnant even if she took the plan b pill? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 7 Answers Quora User , Uncommonly gifted with common sense. Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 3.9k answers and 8.8m answer views Of course there is a chance, even the Plan B pill isn’t 100%. Though I am going to call BULLSHIT on your claim about paranoia and sex. If you were actually paranoid about either an unwanted pregnancy or dick rot(STD/STI) you would have worn a condom. You wouldn’t be having unprotected sex if you were, and you would look at getting actual factual information about sex and have read the insert/instructions on the Plan B pill. You are more the kid who is afraid his parents will find out he broke a rule, not actually paranoid. So you should be worried, not just about pregnancy, but STD/STIs and your ignorance of how birth control and safe sex work. FYI another name for people who use the pull out method like you do…PARENTS. You might want to get some education about sex before you have it again. 9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? Related Questions More Answers Below What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? Ask New Question   Margaret Challen , studied at The University of British Columbia Updated Dec 19, 2016 · Author has 2.4k answers and 1.9m answer views It's probably fine, THIS time. But for heaven’s sake go and buy a box of condoms, or if you're too embarrassed to be seen buying condoms at a pharmacy, then ask a less inhibited friend to buy them for you, or get free condoms at a sexual health clinic. They give them out no questions asked. If you are afraid of what your parents will say if they find them, hide them somewhere. Withdrawal is NOT a method of birth control. I can't remember exact stats off the top of my head, but there is a strong likelihood that if you keep having unprotected sex using the withdrawal method, your classmate will get pregnant pretty soon. Also, the withdrawal method leads to bad sex for both of you. You're worrying “should I pull out now? What about now?” When you should be enjoying your impending orgasm. And your partner is preoccupied with “will he pull out in time? Will I get pregnant?” when she should be enjoying intercourse. Finally, if you have unprotected sex again, even if you do pull out, your partner will have to take Plan B again. Plan B is expensive, and it's not that good for the female body to take it repeatedly. Have as much sex as you like, but have it with condoms or don't have it at all. Unless of course you have a burning desire to make your parents into young grandparents. But you'll fuck up your life and that of your sexual partner if you get her pregnant. It's not the 16th century anymore. Everybody (except maybe some homeschooled kids in Kansas or Mississippi whose fundie parents have deliberately kept them ignorant) knows what condoms are and how to use them. Be smart! 2.1k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by BetterHelp If you are struggling, consider online therapy with BetterHelp. You are worth it. Start Now at betterhelp.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Dansby Parker , former Unicorn Farm Intern Answered Dec 22, 2016 · Author has 1.4k answers and 3.6m answer views What is her BMI? Studies have shown that Plan B is nearly ineffective for women in the obese category (30+ BMI). If she's not obese, there shouldn't be too much worry because Plan B is pretty effective otherwise. You'll just have to wait until she gets her next period and if she is late then she needs to take a pregnancy test. That being said, you need to learn about sex before you have it again - EVEN if you are married when you do. Marriage isn't a magical thing that automatically makes you able to support umpteen children. The pull-out method is a non-method. It simply does not work. Don't ever use this method again unless you want to be a father. If you want to have sex, make sure you have condoms that have been stored properly and not expired. It's also good for the woman to be on the pill or have an IUD if you want to be very sure. It's not great for a woman's health to take Plan B every time she has sex (although it is better than abortion or unwanted pregnancy), so please try to be more responsible in the future. 2.6k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Kelsey Hicks , I had a C-section in 2014, and have been pregnant Answered Dec 21, 2016 · Author has 1k answers and 5.7m answer views First of all, breathe. I'm glad you're aware that unprotected sex is not a smart move unless you want to risk pregnancy. If you pulled out in time- that lowers the chance of pregnancy significantly. If she took the Plan B pill within 24-48 hours of sex- that lowers the chance of pregnancy astronomically. Take a deep breathe and ask her to tell you when her period starts. If you pulled out and used Plan B as emergency contraceptive, then there's only a small, small chance she will get pregnant. It'll be anywhere from a few days to 4 weeks before you will get an answer. Try not to panic. 1.1k Views · View Upvoters promoted  by 23andMe Explore your DNA with 23andMe. Learn more about your health, traits and ancestry through 75+ genetic reports. Learn More at 23andme.com You dismissed this ad. The feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future. Undo   Claudio Delise , Retired Ob-Gyn Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 2.5k answers and 1.5m answer views She probably is not pregnant. Plan B is 90% effective if used within 72 hours. Withdrawal is only 78% effective even when used properly. So a rough probability of pregnancy (.22)*(.10) is less than 2% . This is upper limit estimate. It is even less if you knew where she was on her cycle. So if your paranoia is not too excessive you should be OK (comparable to the use of condoms for example) 1.2k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Chuy Visente Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful?   Jessica Evans , Health Adviser (2011-present) Answered Dec 20, 2016 · Author has 55 answers and 40.1k answer views No medicine is 100% effective but with plan B pill , the chances of getting pregnant are very less. 130 Views Quora User , Certified Midwife Answered Dec 17, 2016 · Author has 143 answers and 364.1k answer views More than 95% chance she wouldn't get pregnant, don't worry. Next time use protection, don't be so careless. 717 Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer useful? Related Questions When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Could I possibly be pregnant after plan b Taken within 12 hours? How does Plan B pill affect your pregnancy? Am I pregnant? I'm feeling vomiting and headache after took Plan B pill. Why is the Plan B pill not suited for routinary use? What would cause the Plan B pill to fail? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? Can I get pregnant even if I took plan b? She took the plan b pill an hour after the accident, what do I do now? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? How effective is the Plan B contraceptive pill? What are the chances that I am pregnant if I took it? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... What are the chances of the Plan B pill not working? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · ContactThis page may be out of date. Save your draft before refreshing this page. Submit any pending changes before refreshing this page.  Hide this message . Quora Ask New Question Sign In  Plan B (pharmaceutical)  Contraception and Birth Control  Pregnancy What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 2 days after? Update Cancel Answer Wiki 8 Answers   Sophia Yen , MD, CEO of PandiaHealth.com, Adolescent Medicine specialist Answered Jan 10, 2016 · Author has 270 answers and 330.9k answer views Plan B can work out to 120 hours (5 days after). However it all depends where you are in your cycle when you have sex. If you had sex approximately 14 days after the 1st day of your cycle, then you were are VERY HIGH risk of pregnancy. If you were like 28 days from the 1st day of your last pregnancy, then less likely you will get pregnancy. Research shows that if you take Plan B 2 days after, your risk of pregnancy is about 3%. However if you are that 3%, then you are 100% pregnant. In the future, you may want to consider getting on long term birth control (IUD, Implant, shot, ring, patch, pill) rather than using emergency contraception as your main method. Also, for Emergency Contraception (EC) consider asking your doctor to prescribe you ulipristal acetate in ADVANCE of need (in case you use condoms and they pop or you get on one of the methods and run out or forget to take them on time). Ulipristal works better on days 3-5 than levonorgestrel (Plan B) and works better in heavier women. 54.5k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date? Related Questions More Answers Below What are the chances of getting pregnant if one consumes 2 contraceptive pills within 2 days? Is it the morning after pill or am I pregnant? What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? Ask New Question   Behati Mateo , Contrarian, Philosopher Answered Dec 6, 2015 · Author has 886 answers and 859.5k answer views You have a 72 hour window, but honestly I'd be more worried about picking up an STD if I were you, Plan B won't protect you against HIV or herpes,or any of the other infections 13.8k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Jasika Rao , blogger Answered Jan 14, 2016 · Author has 68 answers and 51.6k answer views First of all however like plan-b and any products which you have to use. If you are using without many time, by overdose, by miss then you can't get best results . If you take it within 72 hours after you've had unprotected sex, Plan B One-Step can reduce the risk of pregnancy by up to 89%. If you take Plan B One-Step within 24 hours, it is about 95% effective. Use Plan B exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor. Do not use the medication in larger amounts or for longer than recommended. The first dose of Plan B must be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex (no later than 72 hours afterward). The second dose must be taken 12 hours after the first dose. The timing of these doses is very important for this medication to be effective. Call your doctor right away if you vomit within 1 hour after taking either dose of Plan B. Do not take another dose until you talk with your doctor. You should be examined by your doctor within 3 weeks after taking Plan B. The doctor will need to confirm that you are not pregnant and that this medication has not caused any harmful effects. If your period is late by 1 week or longer after the expected date, you may be pregnant. Get a pregnancy test and contact your doctor if you are pregnant. Plan B will not terminate a pregnancy that has already begun (the fertilized egg has attached to the uterus). Store Plan B at room temperature away from moisture and heat. 18.9k Views · View Upvoters Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Is this answer still relevant and up to date?   Joanna Lewis , Medical Advison In USA Answered Feb 17, 2016 If you have sex without using other contraception, your regular birth control fails, or you are made to have sex against your will, take action right away to learn what your options are. Even though emergency contraception is often called the Plan B it may be effective for up to 5 days (120 hours) after unprotected sex. 3.8k Views · View Upvoters   Mary Casey , lived in New York City (2004-2015) Answered Apr 14, 2017 · Author has 484 answers and 88.2k answer views The chances are slight. But, you should work on getting on regular birth control instead of focusing on taking Plan B. What if he expects to cum in you multiple times on different days in the future? It could end up being more costly to keep taking Plan B than regular birth control. 3.4k Views · Answer requested by  Batth Kaur   Gil Lambert , former Marriage Celebrant (2009-2014) Answered Mar 18, 2018 · Author has 1.1k answers and 190.8k answer views A levonorgestrel morning-after pill like Plan B One Step, Next Choice One Dose, Take Action, My Way, and AfterPill can lower your chance of getting pregnant by 75-89% if you take it within 3 days after unprotected sex. You can take Plan B, My Way, Next Choice, and other levonorgestrelmorning-after pills up to 5 days after unprotected sex. But the longer you wait to take it, the less effective it is. 583 Views   Joseph Collins , Retiree living in the Central Pacific region Answered Mar 18, 2018 · Author has 92 answers and 10.2k answer views If you waited 2–3 days since you were intimate and during a time when you were ovulating your chances of getting pregnant are very high. 567 Views   Christina Byrum , Became a parent as a teen Answered Jun 29, 2017 · Author has 414 answers and 163.8k answer views Plan b works by preventing ovulation (if it hasn't already occurred). So it really depends on what point of your cycle you are at when you take it. 4.4k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by  Sheenamae Bagohin Related Questions What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 5 days after? What does it means if there's brown spotting after taking Plan B? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... How soon can you get pregnant after taking Plan B? How effective is plan-b if taken 2 hours after? Can I be pregnant even after having a period? Can I get pregnant 9 days after my period after taking salt and water? Is it possible that after taking Unwanted 72 the test will come back negative after 6 days of taking the pill? What are the chances of getting... Can I get pregnant 2 days after my period on a 28 day cycle? Ask New Question Still have a question? Ask your own! Ask Related Questions What are the chances of getting pregnant if one consumes 2 contraceptive pills within 2 days? Is it the morning after pill or am I pregnant? What are the common first signs of pregnancy? How can I tell if I'm pregnant? What are the symptoms? What happens if you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Is it common to get cramping after taking the Plan B pill? What are the chances of getting pregnant after taking the Plan B pill 5 days after? What does it means if there's brown spotting after taking Plan B? If I took plan b 30 minutes after sex what are the chances of getting pregnant? When does a woman have the highest chance of getting pregnant? Is this before menstrual period, during the period or after the menstrual perio... How soon can you get pregnant after taking Plan B? Ask New Question Sitemap: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z About · Careers · Privacy · Terms · Contact